<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Maru Mori</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 22" id="page_22" role="doc-pagebreak"/>MARU MORI</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the heartbreaking simplicity of ordinary things</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Most living things don’t need to remind themselves that life is precious. They simply pass the time. An old cat can sit in the window of a bookstore, whiling away the hours as people wander through. Blinking calmly, breathing in and out, idly watching a van being unloaded across the street, without thinking too much about anything. And that’s alright. It’s not such a bad way to live.</p>
<p class="indent">So much of life is spent this way, in ordinary time. There’s no grand struggle, no sacraments, no epiphanies. Just simple domesticity, captured in little images, here and there. All the cheap little objects. The jittering rattle of an oscillating fan; a pair of toothbrushes waiting in a cup by the sink. There’s the ragged squeal of an old screen door, the dry electronic screech of a receipt being printed, the ambient roar of someone showering upstairs. And the feeling of pulling on a pair of wool socks on a winter morning and peeling them off at the end of the day. These are sensations that pass without a second thought. So much of it is barely worth noting.</p>
<p class="indent">But in a couple hundred years, this world will turn over to a completely different cast of characters. They won’t look back and wonder who won the battles or when. Instead, <span aria-label="page 23" id="page_23" role="doc-pagebreak"/>they’ll try to imagine how we lived day to day, gathering precious artifacts of the world as it once was, in all its heartbreaking little details. They’ll look for the doodles left behind in the margins of our textbooks, and the dandelions pressed in the pages. They’ll try to imagine how our clothes felt on our bodies, and what we ate for lunch on a typical day, and what it might’ve cost. They’ll wonder about our superstitions, the weird little memes and phrases and jokes we liked to tell, the pop songs we hummed mindlessly to ourselves. They’ll try to imagine how it must’ve felt to stand on a street corner, looking around at the architecture, hearing old cars rumbling by. The smell in the air. What ketchup must have tasted like.</p>
<p class="indent">We rarely think to hold on to that part of life. We don’t build statues of ordinary people. We don’t leave behind little plaques to commemorate the milestones of ordinary time:</p>
<blockquote class="blockquote">
<p class="signtxt">HERE ON THE TWENTY FIFTH OF MARCH</p>
<p class="signtxt">NINETEEN HUNDRED AND NINETY FOUR</p>
<p class="signtxt">SOME NEIGHBORS WENT OUT WALKING THEIR DOGS</p>
<p class="signtxt">THE CHILDREN TOOK TURNS HOLDING THE LEASH</p>
<p class="signtxt">IT WAS A FUN AFTERNOON FOR EVERYONE INVOLVED</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="noindent">But it all still happened. All those cheap and disposable experiences are no less real than anything in our history books, no less sacred than anything in our hymnals. Perhaps we should try keeping our eyes open while we pray, and look <span aria-label="page 24" id="page_24" role="doc-pagebreak"/>for the meaning hidden in the things right in front of us: in the sound of Tic Tacs rattling in a box, the throbbing ache of hiccups, and the punky smell that lingers on your hands after doing the dishes. Each is itself a kind of meditation, a reminder of what is real.</p>
<p class="indent">We need these silly little things to fill out our lives, even if they don’t mean all that much. If only to remind us that the stakes were never all that high in the first place. It’s not always life-and-death. Sometimes it’s just life—and that’s alright.</p>
<p class="fntxt">A tribute to Maru Mori, a friend of Pablo Neruda, whose gift of wool socks inspired his poem “Ode to My Socks.” Compare <i>memento mori</i>, a poignant reminder of your own mortality. Pronounced “<i>mah</i>-roo <i>moh</i>-ree.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">vulture shock</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the nagging sense that no matter how many days you spend exploring a foreign country, you never quite manage to step foot in it—instead floating high above the culture like a diver over a reef, too dazzled by its exotic quirks to notice its problems and complexities and banalities, while drawing from the heavy tank of assumptions that you carry on your back wherever you go.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>vulture</i>, an animal that hovers high over its prey + <i>culture shock</i>, the confusion of having to adjust to a culture different than the one you’re used to.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 25" id="page_25" role="doc-pagebreak"/>merrenness</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the lulling isolation of driving late at night—floating through the void in an otherworldly hum, trailing red jewels in the darkness, your high beams sweeping back and forth like a lighthouse.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Hungarian <i>merre</i>, where? in which direction? Pronounced “<i>mair</i>-uhn-nis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">justing</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the habit of telling yourself that just one tweak could solve all of your problems—if only you had the right haircut, if only you found the right group of friends, if only you made a little more money, if only he noticed you, if only she loved you back, if only you could find the time, if only you were confident—which leaves you feeling perpetually on the cusp of a better life, hanging around the top of the slide waiting for one little push.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>just</i>, only, simply, merely + <i>jousting</i>, a sport won by positioning the tip of your lance at just the right spot, at just the right second. Pronounced “<i>juhst</i>-ing.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>