<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Ballagàrraidh</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 27" id="page_27" role="doc-pagebreak"/>BALLAGÀRRAIDH</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the awareness that you are not at home in the wilderness</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Sometimes you move through the city and feel in your bones how strange and new this all is—the spectacle of modern civilization, just barely older than you are, with its cramped logic, its rules and gridlines and rigid justifications for why the world must be the way it is. And there’s a part of you that thinks, <i>You are not at home here</i>. That still remembers Eden, and longs to return.</p>
<p class="indent">The story of humanity is a move from the countryside to the big city. But it’s happened so fast that our brains are still stuck in the hinterlands. There’s a part of you that longs to leave your car idling in traffic, hop the fence, and flee into the forest. To wander for miles through open territory, forced by fate to live in the moment, your eyes glued to the horizon, your ears tuned to the rustling of leaves. To feel the lushness and harshness of the wild, the clarity of eating and killing and growing stronger. To live off the land without tools or simulations, and experience nature in all its simplicity—raw, indifferent, and ferociously real.</p>
<p class="indent">And yet, another part of you knows that Eden is a fantasy. Even our oldest symbols of nature are deeply unnatural: the plants we eat are sterile, swollen, unrecognizable to the <span aria-label="page 28" id="page_28" role="doc-pagebreak"/>food chain. Our domesticated animals are mere caricatures of their wild ancestors. The family dog is just another piece of technology, designed and bred to serve a purpose. And you too are a domesticated animal, shrouded in synthetic fibers and synthetic thoughts. Even if you wander off to sleep in the woods with a stove and a backpack, everything from the buzzing in your ears to the howling in the distance will be trying to tell you, <i>You are not at home here</i>. As much as you want to sink your claws into the dirt, you’ll always be floating somewhere above it, trailing clouds of civilization wherever you go.</p>
<p class="indent">We need to believe in the fall from Eden. We need to believe that we corrupted a place that had always been pure. But maybe all along, we had the story backward. Maybe we were the ones who cast out the jungle, who stripped it naked, and tried to teach it good and evil, breaking it down into pieces that served a purpose. We couldn’t handle the true state of nature—the overwhelming chaos, the corruption and the mutations, the fluidity of interconnections and the fecundity of the soil, where nothing is pure, where life and death are intertwined. So we decided to turn away, barricading ourselves in a walled garden.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe we were wrong from the start. In the beginning, there was everything.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Scottish Gaelic <i>balla gàrraidh</i>, garden wall. Pronounced “bah-luh-gah-<i>rahy</i>” or “bah-lah-<i>ghaw</i>-rah.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 29" id="page_29" role="doc-pagebreak"/>foreclearing</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the act of deliberately refusing to learn the scientific explanations of things out of fear that it’ll ruin the magic—turning flower petals into tacky billboards, decoding birdsong into trash talk, defracting a rainbow back inside its tiny prism.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Danish <i>forklaring</i>, explanation. Pronounced “fohr-<i>kleer</i>-ing.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">ne’er-be-gone</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a person who has no idea where their home is, or was, or when they might have left it—which leaves their emotional compass free to swing around wildly as they move from place to place, pulling them everywhere and nowhere all at once, making it that much harder to navigate.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>naur</i>, nowhere + <i>begone</i>, surrounded. Pronounced “<i>nair</i>-bi-gawn.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 30" id="page_30" role="doc-pagebreak"/>wildred</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> feeling the haunting solitude of extremely remote places—a clearing in the forest, a windswept field of snow, a rest area in the middle of nowhere—which makes you feel like you’ve just intruded on a conversation that had nothing to do with you, where even the gravel beneath your feet and the trees overhead are holding themselves back to a pointed, inhospitable silence.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>wild</i> + <i>dread</i>. Pronounced “<i>wil</i>-drid.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">ghough</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a hollow place in your psyche that can never be filled; a bottomless hunger for more food, more praise, more attention, more affection, more joy, more sex, more money, more hours of sunshine, more years of your life; a state of panic that everything good will be taken from you too early, which makes you want to swallow the world before it ends up swallowing you.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Onomatopoeic to the sound of a devouring maw. Pronounced “hawkh,” with air drawn sharply inward through the mouth.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 31" id="page_31" role="doc-pagebreak"/>ringlorn</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. the wish that the modern world felt as epic as the one depicted in old stories and folktales—a place of tragedy and transcendence, of oaths and omens and fates, where everyday life felt like a quest for glory, a mythic bond with an ancient past, or a battle for survival against a clear enemy, rather than an open-ended parlor game where all the rules are made up and the points don’t matter.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>ring</i>, a key element in many sagas and myths + <i>-lorn</i>, sorely missing. Pronounced “<i>ring</i>-lawrn.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">harmonoia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> an itchy sense of dread when life feels just a hint too peaceful—when everyone seems to get along suspiciously well, with an eerie stillness that makes you want to brace for the inevitable collapse, or burn it down yourself.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>harmony</i> + <i>paranoia</i>. Pronounced “hahr-muh-<i>noi</i>-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 32" id="page_32" role="doc-pagebreak"/>gobo</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the delirium of having spent all day in an aesthetic frame of mind—watching a beautiful movie, taking photos across the city, getting lost in an art museum—which infuses the world with an aura of meaning, until every crack in the wall becomes a commitment to naturalism, and every rainbow swirling in a puddle feels like a choice.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Short for <i>go-between</i>. In theatrical lighting, a <i>gobo</i> is a layer inserted into a lamp that shapes the pool of light that hits the stage. Pronounced “<i>goh</i>-boh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">treachery of the common</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the fear that everyone around the world is pretty much the same—that despite our local quirks, we were all mass-produced in the same factory, built outward from the same generic homunculus, preinstalled with the same tribal compulsions and character defects—which would leave you out of options if you ever want to reinvent yourself, or seek out a better society on the other side of the globe.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">A riff on <i>the tragedy of the commons</i>, which is a situation where individual users acting in their own self-interest end up harming the common good, usually by depletion or pollution of resources.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 33" id="page_33" role="doc-pagebreak"/>funkenzwangsvorstellung</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the primal trance of watching a campfire in the dark.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">German <i>Funken</i>, spark + <i>Zwangsvorstellung</i>, obsession. Pronounced “foon-ken-tsvang-<i>svohr</i>-stel-oong.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">zielschmerz</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the dread of finally pursuing a lifelong dream, which requires you to put your true abilities out there to be tested on the open savannah, no longer protected inside the terrarium of hopes and delusions that you started up in kindergarten and kept sealed as long as you could.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">German <i>Ziel</i>, goal + <i>Schmerz</i>, pain. Pronounced “<i>zeel</i>-shmerts.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>