<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Anoscetia</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 68" id="page_68" role="doc-pagebreak"/>ANOSCETIA</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the anxiety of not knowing “the real you”</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Everyone around you seems to have such a vibrant color of personality. It shines through vividly in everything they do, from the shoes they wear, to the groceries they put in their cart, to the precise wording of a text wishing you a happy birthday. You’d think it would all seem generic, but somehow every detail is quintessentially <i>them</i>.</p>
<p class="indent">How strange, then, that your own experience doesn’t seem to be tinted with any particular vibe. Mostly you feel you do what you have to do, with little opportunity for embellishment. And when there is free rein to improvise, you find yourself feeding off other people’s moods, matching their tones and energies, just trying to get along or make it through the day. Inside your head, you imagine yourself as a shade of neutral gray that just happens to reflect whatever strong colors are nearby.</p>
<p class="indent">Of course, your family and friends would insist you’re anything but neutral, painting you with the same broad brush you use to paint them: you’re a sunny yellow, they might say, or a chill blue, a fiery red, an innocent pink, an edgy black. They’re not necessarily wrong; you do notice a certain quality threaded through your personality, and often find yourself playing into it, because it’s a lot easier to be cheerful or crabby or crazy or <span aria-label="page 69" id="page_69" role="doc-pagebreak"/>boring if everyone already thinks of you that way. The trouble is, each of them only ever sees you in isolated contexts, inhabiting certain roles at certain times. If anyone tried to shadow you through an entire week, they’d be astonished to see you as a serious professional, a sexual being, a spiritual person, a story-time goofball, a nervous wreck, or the life of the party. Each of their impressions may be accurate in the moment, but each reflects only a narrow band of the full spectrum of you.</p>
<p class="indent">Meanwhile, you shadow yourself twenty-four hours a day, in a variety of different situations. In what context are you most like yourself? Are you more or less authentic when you lose yourself in your work, pour your heart out to a friend, or are alone, just trying to clear your mind? Even then, you know firsthand how messy your moods can be, how scattered and contradictory your thought process, how many arbitrary urges you could obey at any given time. Whenever you stumble on a new situation, it’s hard to predict which version of you is going to emerge, or which opinion is going to tumble out from the gumball machine in your head—knowing it’ll carry the sheen of truth, as if all your other thoughts didn’t exist.</p>
<p class="indent">It makes you wish you could restore your self-image back to its essence. Painstakingly washing away the remnants of all the times you tried to be someone you’re not. Cleaning up areas where people tried to paint over you or ripped away qualities they didn’t like. Stripping down your identity, layer by layer, through all your habits and distractions and cultural programming, so you can finally reveal your true colors for <span aria-label="page 70" id="page_70" role="doc-pagebreak"/>all to see. But the more you look into who you are in isolation, the more your identity dissolves into a noise of random impulses—dust on a blank canvas.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe there is no single self to speak of. Maybe you’re a shifting collage of many different personas, each as authentic as the next. A kaleidoscope of ever-moving fragments, reflecting a thousand little impressions of the world around you, with flashes of different moods and vibrant clusters of quirks—but no broader pattern.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe you have no true colors. You’re not some finished painting, signed and sealed in varnish. If there is a “real you,” surely it’s the mess of paint on the palette: colors swirling and mixing and playing together, perpetually unfinished, searching and striving to make something new.</p>
<p class="fntxt">From <i>an-</i>, not + Latin <i>Nosce te ipsum</i>, “Know thyself.” Pronounced “an-oh-<i>see</i>-sha” or “an-oh-<i>say</i>-tyah.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">desanté</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the brooding delirium of being sick, which makes time slow to a trickle and turns even the most pathetic of tasks into monumental struggles, until the act of lifting your head from the pillow feels like trying to climb a mountain, wondering if you’ll ever find your way back again, or even catch your breath.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">A riff on the French toast <i>santé</i>. Literally, “un-health!” Pronounced “day-sahn-<i>tey</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 71" id="page_71" role="doc-pagebreak"/>sayfish</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a sincere emotion that seems to wither into mush as soon as you try to put it into words—like reeling in a shimmering beast from the deep only to watch it wriggle limply on the line, which makes you want to leave it down there, languishing unexpressed, where it’ll grow dark and slender and weird, with ghostly blue eyes and long translucent teeth.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">The <i>sailfish</i> is a species of fish noted for its violent power, its eponymous signaling fin, and its ability to change colors like a chameleon. It’s also known as the <i>boohoo</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead">addleworth</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. unable to settle the question of whether you’re doing okay in life; feeling torn between conflicting value systems and moveable goalposts, which makes you long for someone to come along and score your progress in discrete and measurable units—points, dollars, friends, followers, or a grade point average—which may not clear up where you’re going but would at least reassure you that you’re one step closer to getting there.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>addled</i>, muddled or unclear + <i>worth</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 72" id="page_72" role="doc-pagebreak"/>symptomania</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the fantasy that there’s some elaborate diagnosis out there that neatly captures the kind of person you are, tying together your many flaws and contradictions into a single theme—which wouldn’t necessarily sort out the mess inside your head but would at least let you mark it with a little sign so people know to walk around it.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>symptom</i> + <i>mania</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead">fitching</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>v. intr</i>. compulsively turning away from works of art you find frustratingly, nauseatingly good—wanting to shut off the film and leave the theater, or devour a book only in maddening little chunks—because it resonates at precisely the right frequency to rattle you to your core, which makes it mildly uncomfortable to be yourself.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>bitching</i>, markedly good + <i>fitch</i>, the European polecat, an animal that often cripples its prey by piercing its brain with its teeth, before storing it alive in its burrow to return and eat sometime later.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 73" id="page_73" role="doc-pagebreak"/>solysium</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the unhinged delirium of being alone for an extended period of time—feeling the hours stretch into days until a weird little culture begins to form inside your head, with its own superstitions and alternate histories and a half-mumbled dialect all your own—whose freewheeling absurdity feels oddly liberating but makes it that much harder to reacclimate to the strictures and ambiguities of normal social life.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>solitary</i>, being by oneself + <i>asylum</i>, a sanctuary for the mentally ill + <i>Elysium</i>, the Ancient Greek equivalent of heaven. Pronounced “soh-<i>lee</i>-zee-uhm.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">indosentia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the fear that your emotions might feel profound but are crudely biological, less to do with meaning and philosophy than with hormones, endorphins, sleep cycles, and blood sugar—any of which might easily be tweaked to induce unfalsifiable feelings of joy, depression, bloodlust, or kinship, or even a spiritual transcendence of your physical body.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Acronym of the supposed “happy chemicals” Dopamine, Oxytocin, Serotonin, and Endorphins + <i>in absentia</i>, something done in your absence. Pronounced “in-duh-<i>sen</i>-shah” or “in-doh-<i>sen</i>-tyah.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 74" id="page_74" role="doc-pagebreak"/>vicarous</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> curious to know what someone else would do if they were in your shoes, eager to watch another actor put their own spin on the character of You—carrying your body differently, speaking in a tone you never use, saying and doing things you didn’t even know were an option—a performance that might well end in disaster but would at least remind you that there are many different ways to play this role, even though you tend to assume you’re just reading the lines as written.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>vicarious</i>, but without the <i>I</i>. Pronounced “<i>vik</i>-er-uhs.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">bareleveling</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>v. intr.</i> trying to improve yourself without anyone else knowing about it, afraid that they’ll think it’s silly or grandiose or unnecessary, or that they’ll end up calling too much attention to your efforts, transforming a casual tweak into a flashy rebranding campaign.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Armenian <span class="f2">բարելավվել</span> (<i>barelavvel</i>), to become better. Pronounced “<i>bair</i>-lev-uhl-ing.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">hiddled</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> feeling the loneliness of having to keep a secret to yourself.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Old English <i>hidil</i>, hiding place. Pronounced “<i>hid</i>-ld.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 75" id="page_75" role="doc-pagebreak"/>manusia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the ambient feeling of being a human being; a baseline mood that everyone feels intensely every moment of their lives, but can never pin down because they have nothing else to compare it to.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Sanskrit <i>manusyá</i>, human being. Pronounced “muh-<i>noo</i>-zhuh” or “muh-<i>noo</i>-zee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">povism</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the frustration of being stuck inside your own head, unable to see your face or read your body language in context, only ever guessing how you might be coming across—which makes you think of yourself as a detached observer squinting out at a lushly painted landscape, though to everyone else you seem woven right into the canvas.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>point of view</i> + <i>ism</i>. Blessed are the slugs, whose eyes are held aloft on wriggling stalks, just tall enough to see their entire bodies in context. Pronounced “<i>poh</i>-viz-uhm.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>