<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Socha</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 135" id="page_135" role="doc-pagebreak"/>SOCHA</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the hidden vulnerability of others</i></p>
<p class="noindent">There’s an optical illusion that’s easy to fall for, even if you know the trick: the more distant you are from other people, the more invulnerable they appear.</p>
<p class="indent">You see yourself as you are, with your failures just as clear as your successes. But you see most other people on their terms—only from the side they want you to see, like a statue on a high pedestal, stoic and confident. At first glance, they’ve got everything figured out, with every feature set in stone, exactly as they had intended. They appear securely embedded in their community, wrapped up tightly with their loved ones. Their life seems complete, like a finished work of art.</p>
<p class="indent">But it’s only just a trick of perspective, because you can’t see the cracks from so far away. You have no way of knowing how insecure their footing might be, how malleable they really are. How many years of effort might’ve gone into shaping their persona into something acceptable. How many hands it takes just to get them through an ordinary day, and keep them from falling to pieces.</p>
<p class="indent">Each of us is only ever a work in progress; we all have weaknesses we’re not sure how to fix. So why does it feel so surprising when we catch a glimpse of vulnerability in others? Why do we keep falling for the same old trick, when each of <span aria-label="page 136" id="page_136" role="doc-pagebreak"/>us spends so much time trying to get away with it ourselves? Who knows why we harbor such public confidence and such private doubts?</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe we need to think of others as statues, and ourselves as fragile blobs of clay. Maybe that contradiction is what keeps us moving, wanting to better ourselves, and be more than what we are. Maybe it helps us keep our distance, to avoid too much friction as we brush past one another, trying to ignore how much damage we can do along the way.</p>
<p class="indent">Or maybe our secret vulnerability is what draws us together. It gives each of us a primal need that only a friend can satisfy—someone you trust enough to be yourself with, who can help prop you up if needed, or remind you that you’re fine the way you are. And even if you’re not, that’s okay, too. Nothing is set in stone.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Czech <i>socha</i>, statue. Pronounced “<i>soh</i>-khuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">tillid</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> humbled by how readily you place your life into the hands of random strangers, often without a second thought—trusting a restaurant to check its expiration dates, trusting a construction crew not to cheap out on materials, trusting thousands of other drivers to stay in their lane—people who you may never meet but whose well-being you’re deeply invested in, whether you know it or not.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Danish <i>tillid</i>, trust. Pronounced “<i>til</i>-id.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 137" id="page_137" role="doc-pagebreak"/>momophobia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the fear of speaking off the cuff or from the heart; the terror of saying the wrong thing and having to watch someone’s smile fade as they realize you’re not who they thought you were.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek μῶμος (<i>momos</i>), blemish, disgrace + -φοβία (<i>-phobía</i>), fear. Momus was the Ancient Greek god of mockery and harsh criticism. Pronounced “moh-muh-<i>foh</i>-bee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">siso</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a solitary experience you wish you could have shared with someone else—having dinner in a romantic setting, reaching the summit after an arduous climb, having a run-in with a crazy stranger that nobody’s going to believe—which makes you look around for confirmation that it even happened at all.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Welsh <i>si-so</i>, see-saw, an invention that can only ever be enjoyed by multiple people; when used alone, it’s just a wonky bench. Pronounced “<i>see</i>-soh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">anechosis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a state of exhaustion with continually being told what you want to hear, whether by marketers pandering to you or acquaintances afraid of causing offense; the longing for someone to have the heart to finally call you out on your bullshit, challenge your long-held assumptions, and push <span aria-label="page 138" id="page_138" role="doc-pagebreak"/>you to become a better person—which would be a far deeper kindness than trying to live and let live.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>an-</i>, against + <i>echoes</i>. Pronounced “an-uh-<i>koh</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">covalent bond</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a moment of sudden involvement in a stranger’s personal life—rushing over to break up a fight, helping a teary-eyed parent struggling with a stroller, righting someone’s bike after a bad fall—that shatters the invisible glass box that usually surrounds us in public, the one we prefer to pretend is impenetrable, which somehow renders us unable to speak.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>covalence</i>, literally “shared strength.” In chemistry, a <i>covalent bond</i> describes the force that holds two atoms together upon sharing a loose outer shell of electron pairs. Pronounced “ko-<i>vey</i>-luhnt bond.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">anaphasia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the fear that your society is breaking apart into factions that have nothing left in common with each other—each defending their own set of values, referring to their own cult figures, speaking in their own untranslatable language.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>anaphase</i>, the stage in cell division when sister chromatids are pulled apart to opposite sides of the cell + <i>aphasia</i>, the inability to comprehend or formulate language due to brain dysfunction. Pronounced “an-uh-<i>fey</i>-zhah.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 139" id="page_139" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Eigenschauung</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the degree to which your view of the world is warped by your own presence in it, whether you’re a stunning beauty who assumes all strangers are chatty, a bully who thinks the world is perpetually at war, or a quivering leaf who walks around in an artificial cloud of deference; the awareness that although you’d like to think you perceive things cleanly and objectively, you’ve never felt the vibe of a room that doesn’t happen to have you in it.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">German <i>eigen</i>, inherent + <i>Anschauung</i>, view. Compare <i>Weltanschauung</i>, “worldview.” Your <i>Weltanschauung</i> is how you see the world; your <i>Eigenschauung</i> is a reflection of how the world sees you. Pronounced “<i>ahy</i>-guhn-shou-oong.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">ledsome</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. feeling lonely in a crowd; drifting along in a sea of anonymous faces but unable to communicate with or confide in any of them.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>leed</i>, countrymen, compatriots + <i>lonesome</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead">nullness</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a state of instinctive restlessness that arises when your society makes too many choices on your behalf—foreclosing all risks, codifying all moral dilemmas, deciding <span aria-label="page 140" id="page_140" role="doc-pagebreak"/>in advance whether you’ll succeed or fail—as if your conscience had been outsourced to an external provider, so it’s no longer necessary to have one on site.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>null</i>, an empty set of values.</p>
<p class="dfhead">holiette</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a place that seems to hold profound significance to everyone else but you—the sacred temple of some other faith, a random fence post festooned with flowers, a crowd cheering for a team you’ve never heard of—which leaves you trying to coax yourself into feeling something anyway, like inserting your house key into a random lock just to feel if something clicks.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>holy</i>, sacred or religiously revered <i>+ -ette</i>, denoting an imitation of the real thing. Pronounced “hoh-lee-<i>et</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">allope</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a mysterious aura of loneliness you feel in certain places; the palpable weight of all the lonely people secretly holed up in their houses and apartments, with a flickering blue glow cast up on their walls—so many of whom might just want someone to talk to, or just want to feel needed, and could be that for each other if only they could somehow connect.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Short for “All the lonely people,” from the song “Eleanor Rigby” by the Beatles. Pronounced “<i>al</i>-uh-pee.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>