<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Sonder</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 123" id="page_123" role="doc-pagebreak"/>SONDER</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the awareness that everyone has a story</i></p>
<p class="noindent">You are the main character. The protagonist. The star at the center of your own unfolding story. You’re surrounded by your supporting cast: friends and family hanging in your immediate orbit. Scattered a little further out, a network of acquaintances who drift in and out of contact over the years.</p>
<p class="indent">But there in the background, faint and out of focus, are the extras. The random passersby. Each living a life as vivid and complex as your own. They carry on invisibly around you, bearing the accumulated weight of their own ambitions, friends, routines, mistakes, worries, triumphs, and inherited craziness.</p>
<p class="indent">When your life moves on to the next scene, theirs flickers in place, wrapped in a cloud of backstory and inside jokes and characters strung together with countless other stories you’ll never be able to see. That you’ll never know exist. In which you might appear only once. As an extra sipping coffee in the background. As a blur of traffic passing on the highway. As a lighted window at dusk.</p>
<p class="fntxt">French <i>sonder</i>, to plumb the depths. Pronounced “<i>sahn</i>-der.” Can be used as a noun or a verb, as you would use the word <i>wonder</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 124" id="page_124" role="doc-pagebreak"/>hailbound</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> mysteriously compelled to wave to passing strangers on a country road, a mountain path, or a remote stretch of water.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>hail</i>, to greet + <i>bound</i>, being obliged.</p>
<p class="dfhead">monachopsis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the subtle but persistent feeling of being out of place, as maladapted to your surroundings as a seal on a beach, lumbering and clumsy, huddled in the company of other misfits, dreaming of life in your natural habitat, a place where you’d be fluidly, brilliantly, effortlessly at home.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek μοναχός (<i>monakhós</i>), single, solitary + ὄψις (<i>ópsis</i>), vision. Pronounced “mon-uh-<i>kop</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">kenaway</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the longing to see how other people live their lives when they’re not in public; wishing you could tune in to the raw feed of another human existence, in all its messiness and solitude—shimmying in place while brushing their teeth, squabbling over where to put the shoes, talking out their problems on solitary commutes—if only to give you something to compare your own life against, and figure out whether you’re bizarrely normal or normally bizarre.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>ken</i>, one’s range of knowledge + <i>keep-away</i>, a game in which one player tries to intercept a ball being tossed back and forth by two others. Pronounced “<i>ken</i>-uh-wey.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 125" id="page_125" role="doc-pagebreak"/>ludiosis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the sense that you’re just making it up as you go along—knowing that if someone asked why you do most things, you couldn’t really come up with a convincing explanation.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In Ancient Rome, <i>Ludi Osci</i>, the Oscan Games, gave rise to the art of improvisational theater. Pronounced “loo-dee-<i>oh</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">routwash</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a moment of panic that you’ll end up looking back on years of labor with little to show for it, that despite all the time you’ve spent gathering skills and connections and experiences, many of them will prove to have been worth almost nothing in the long run, redeemable for petty cash, a line on a résumé, a few compliments, or a handful of magic beans.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>rout</i>, a chaotic retreat + <i>wash</i>, a meager return on investment + <i>outwash</i>, the gravelly sediment left by water flowing from a melting glacier.</p>
<p class="dfhead">eisce</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the awareness of the infinitesimal role you play in shaping your own society—knowing that whenever you smile at a stranger, pronounce a word a certain way, laugh at a certain joke, or choose the slightly shinier apple, you are unwittingly helping to construct the world in which you <span aria-label="page 126" id="page_126" role="doc-pagebreak"/>live—a role both vanishingly small but also somehow daunting, making it that much harder to complain about the traffic, knowing that you are traffic.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Irish <i>eisceacht</i>, exception. Pronounced “<i>ahy</i>-shuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">kuebiko</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a state of exhaustion inspired by senseless tragedies and acts of violence, which force you to abruptly revise your expectations of what can happen in this world, trying to prop yourself up like an old scarecrow, who’s bursting at the seams yet powerless to do anything but stand there and watch.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In Japanese mythology, <i>Kuebiko</i> is the name of a kami deity, a scarecrow who stands all day watching the world go by, which has made him very wise but locked in place. Pronounced “koo-<i>web</i>-i-koh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">lockheartedness</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the atmosphere of camaraderie when people are stuck together in a certain place—a stalled elevator, a shelter during a storm, the sleeper car of a train—which leaves them no other option but to be present with each other, with nowhere else to go, and nobody else to be.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>locked up + fullheartedness</i>.</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>