<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Klexos</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 173" id="page_173" role="doc-pagebreak"/>KLEXOS</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the art of dwelling on the past</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Your life is written in indelible ink. There’s no going back to erase the past, tweak your mistakes, or fill in missed opportunities. When the moment’s over, your fate is sealed. But if you look closer, the ink never really dries on any of your experiences. They can change their meaning the longer you look at them.</p>
<p class="indent">It’s often said that there’s nothing to be gained in looking backward. But there are ways of thinking about the past that aren’t just nostalgia or regret; a kind of questioning that can allow fresh context to trickle in over the years, slowly filling out the picture like an inkblot painting, right there in front of you.</p>
<p class="indent">You can watch as a hero shrinks into someone deeply troubled, while a villain might begin to seem utterly relatable. A few peripheral characters might turn out to have been central to your story all along. A golden age can take on a darker edge, exposing cracks in a relationship you once thought was perfect. A wasted year can turn out to have been a shrewd investment, vital to your eventual success. The end of the world can be bargained down to a pivot point to something better. And a glancing wound from years ago might still be bleeding under the surface, having hurt you in ways that affect your entire life.</p>
<p class="indent"><span aria-label="page 174" id="page_174" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Time can even change your image of who you are. You may turn out to have been lucky when you thought you were cursed, cringeworthy when you thought you were cool, flawed when you thought you were quirky, cared for when you thought you were alone.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe it’s not so bad to dwell on the past, as long as it brings you closer to the truth. If nothing else, it’s a way to push back against the oversimplification of time. Trying to keep a memory alive, as something more than just a caricature of itself.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe we should think of memory itself as an art form, in which the real work begins as soon as the paint hits the canvas. And a work of art is never finished, only abandoned.</p>
<p class="fntxt">From <i>klecksography</i>, which is the art of making images from inkblots, famously used in Rorschach psychoanalytic tests. Interpreting their ambiguity is thought to illuminate the subconscious of the patient. Pronounced “<i>kleks</i>-ohs.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 175" id="page_175" role="doc-pagebreak"/>anchorage</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the desire to hold on to time as it passes, like trying to keep your grip on a rock in the middle of a river, feeling the weight of the current against your chest while your elders float on downstream, calling over the roar of the rapids, <i>“Just let go—it’s okay—let go.”</i></p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>anchorage</i>, a port at which ships may anchor. Pronounced “<i>ang</i>-ker-ij.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">daguerreologue</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> an imaginary conversation with an old photo of yourself, in which you might offer them a word of advice—to banish your worries, soak it all in, or shape up before it’s too late—or maybe just ask them if they thought you had done justice to the life they built for you.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>daguerreotype</i>, a form of early portrait photography + <i>dialogue</i>. Pronounced “duh-<i>gair</i>-uh-lawg.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">kerisl</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the sorrow of imagining the wealth of knowledge forever lost to history—knowing we’ll never hear the language of the Etruscans, the battle cry of the Sea Peoples, or the burial chants of the Neanderthals; that we’ll never read any more than a fragment of the works of Blake, Sappho, Aristotle, or Jesus; or enjoy the untold treasures of so <span aria-label="page 176" id="page_176" role="doc-pagebreak"/>many burned libraries and forgotten oral traditions and unrecorded songs—any of which might have made up the cornerstone of the canon, that we’d all be able to quote by heart and couldn’t imagine living without.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">A contraction of <i>Kergeulen Islands</i>. Roughly equidistant between Australia, Antarctica, and Madagascar, they are the only visible remnant of the Kergeulen microcontinent, which was submerged some twenty million years ago. Three times the size of Japan, it was once covered in dense conifer forests, with peaks reaching 2,000 meters above sea level, populated with strange and nameless fauna that must have called it home, before all traces were lost beneath the waves. Pronounced “<i>kair</i>-ahyl.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">mithenness</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the unsettling awareness that the rest of the world happily carries on in your absence, that although things only ever seem to change when you check back in for an update, they’re unwilling to wait for you, and undergo massive shifts while your back is turned—your mother getting older, your old friends becoming different people, your hometown losing some of the hallmarks that made it feel like home.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>mithen</i>, to be hidden away. Pronounced “<i>mith</i>-uhn-nis.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>