<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Tichloch</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 191" id="page_191" role="doc-pagebreak"/>TICHLOCH</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the anxiety of never knowing how much time you have left</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Time is an odd sort of currency. You’re free to spend it or squander it as you will, but no matter how you choose to budget your remaining years, they’re only ever dispensed in tiny micropayments, cent by cent, heartbeat by heartbeat, tick after tock after tick.</p>
<p class="indent">Which means you have no way of knowing how much of it you have left. Maybe you’re just now coming down to your last dime. Or maybe you’re sitting on a vast fortune, with many decades still to come—but even then, you’d have no way of knowing it until it’s too late, when you finally look around and conclude you must’ve been rich all along.</p>
<p class="indent">But suppose it was possible to check your remaining balance, knowing exactly how many heartbeats you had left in your lifetime. Most human beings will top out at around two billion beats, more with good behavior. Would it feel humbling to see your life distilled into a string of digits, gently ticking down? Or would it feel oddly comforting? After all, if you knew your time was short, you’d have no reason not to live each day as if it was your last, knowing how close that was to being true. And if your number was still in the billions, you could bank on a long retirement, <span aria-label="page 192" id="page_192" role="doc-pagebreak"/>kicking back and taking a little time for yourself, feeling like a billionaire.</p>
<p class="indent">At first. But then, in quiet moments, you’d start to notice a certain rhythm throbbing in your ears, like a clock you’d managed to tune out for months, only to hear it punctuate the silence with a <i>tick, tick, tick</i>. Whenever you settled down to sleep, you’d find it hard to ignore the feeling of your heart heaving around in its cage, pounding out its rhythm, which only seems to get faster the more you think about it. With every beat, you’d feel your fortune being withdrawn, cent by cent, a steady deposit of coins rattling down into a deep metal tray.</p>
<p class="indent">How long would it be before you’d start hoarding time, turning over every moment in your mind, looking for a price tag? You’d become all too aware how much life you keep trading for a pittance of salary, aware that tying your shoelaces wrong will cost you twenty beats, that posting a comment online might set you back three hundred, all of which might’ve been better spent elsewhere. You’d come to the end of a bad movie and whisper to yourself with some urgency, “That’s two hours of my life I’m never getting back.”</p>
<p class="indent">Alas. You’re never getting any of it back. It’s the cost of doing business. And even if you could have it appraised down to the fraction of a second, its value would be no clearer. Time has no inherent value. If it’s a currency, it’s a kind of fiat currency, in that you can’t just cash it in for anything solid. Which means it’s up to you to decide what it’s worth trading for.</p>
<p class="indent"><span aria-label="page 193" id="page_193" role="doc-pagebreak"/>It may be a blessing that you never know how much time you have left, because it leaves you no other option but to listen to your heart and get into its rhythm, so you can focus on the things that make life worth living. So go ahead: make every second count, or don’t. Seize the day or while away the hours. All you have is this moment. That alone is a blessing. You’re almost out of time, and you have all the time in the world.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Acronym of The Insatiable Crocodile Hunts (What’s) Left of Captain Hook. Pronounced “<i>tik</i>-lok.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">ecury</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a conversation that spans huge intervals of time, kept alive by contributors who casually overlay their thoughts as if no time had passed, which effectively compresses it all into a poignant temporal mash—an online thread that waits years between replies, a constitution being amended by successive generations, or a cave painting fleshed out in sessions ten thousand years apart, by artists who might each have been using the same discarded piece of charcoal.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Basque <i>ekurrikatz</i>, a piece of charcoal used for drawing. Pronounced “<i>ek</i>-yuh-ree.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">archimony</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> anger about an injustice you only discovered long after the fact, after years have passed and everyone else has moved on, leaving you seething with an awkward and <span aria-label="page 194" id="page_194" role="doc-pagebreak"/>antiquated righteousness that you’re not sure what to do with, like a flywheel still spinning long after the engine is shut off.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>archi-</i>, earlier, primitive <i>+ acrimony</i>, bitterness, animosity. Pronounced “<i>ahr</i>-kuh-moh-nee.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">zysia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the sense that you were born too early in history, all too aware of how crude and backward the present can be, feeling tired of having to sit through so much clunky exposition and slow-burning suspense, when all you want to do is skip ahead to find out what happens next.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">A word tantalizingly close to being the last word of the dictionary, but not quite there. Pronounced “<i>zee</i>-zhah.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">aftersome</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. astonished to think back on the bizarre sequence of accidents that brought you to where you are today—as if you’d spent years bouncing down a Plinko pegboard, passing through a million harmless decision points, any one of which might’ve changed everything—which makes your long and winding path feel fated from the start, yet so unlikely as to be virtually impossible.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Swedish <i>eftersom</i>, because.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 195" id="page_195" role="doc-pagebreak"/>heart of aces</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the awareness that although a certain experience may strike you as utterly unremarkable, it might be having a profound effect on other people nearby, who will remember every detail for the rest of their lives—having inspired the birth of a phobia, a fetish, a lifelong relationship, or a lifelong career.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In poker and blackjack, the ace card can be valued either low or high; it’s up to the player to decide. Every day is an ace, which might end up being valuable or worthless, forgettable or unforgettable, depending on who’s playing and what else they’re holding in their hand.</p>
<p class="dfhead">o’erpine</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>v. intr.</i> to wander through the grounds of a cemetery, glancing over the gravestones as if you were people-watching the dead, imagining all the things they must have seen and the lives they might have led, trying to conjure up an entire biography from a handful of words and dates etched in granite, with barely more than a single dash to cover the unimaginable vastness of their experience.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>over</i>, finished and done with + <i>pine</i>, to yearn or grieve for something. Compare the flowering perennial <i>orpine</i>, also called <i>autumn joy</i> or <i>live-forevers</i>, which is often found in open sunny areas of cemeteries. Pronounced “<i>awr</i>-pahyn.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>