<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Dès Vu</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 196" id="page_196" role="doc-pagebreak"/>DÈS VU</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the awareness that this moment will become a memory</i></p>
<p class="noindent">You were born on a moving train. Even though it feels like you’re holding still, time is sweeping past you, right where you sit. But once in a while you look up, and start to feel the inertia, sensing the present moment already turning into a memory, even as it’s still happening. Somehow you know in advance that you’re going to remember this day for years to come.</p>
<p class="indent">You can almost feel the presence of your future self, looking back on this moment. Of course, by then it’ll mean something very different. Maybe you’ll cringe and laugh, or brim with pride, aching to return. Or you’ll focus in on some random detail hidden in the scene—a future landmark making its first appearance, or discreetly taking its final bow.</p>
<p class="indent">So you look around the scene, trying to tell in advance what this moment is going to mean. It’s as if you’re walking through the memory while it’s still happening, feeling for all the world like a time traveler.</p>
<p class="indent">You notice how strange it all seems. All the quaint little gadgets and fads and slang terms that never made all that much sense. All the faces around you, still so young and vibrant, fretting about the day’s concerns, not yet realizing that this world is already out of their hands. That all of this will <span aria-label="page 197" id="page_197" role="doc-pagebreak"/>soon be swept away and replaced by something different. And yet nobody is stopping to take it all in or revel in the nostalgia of a world that once was. For them, and for you, it’s still a bit too early for that.</p>
<p class="indent">In a way, you really are a time traveler, leaping into the future in little, tentative steps. A part of you is like a kid stuck in a strange land without a map, with nothing to do but soak in the moment and take one last look before moving on. But another part of you is already an old man looking back on things, waiting at the door for his granddaughter, who’s trying to make her way home for a visit.</p>
<p class="indent">You are two people, separated by an ocean of time. Part of you bursting to talk about what you saw. Part of you longing to tell you what it all means.</p>
<p class="fntxt">French <i>dès vu</i>, seen as of now. Alternately <i>sera vu</i>, will be seen. Akin to the feeling of <i>déjà vu</i>, but in the reverse order—already remembering something as you’re living it. Pronounced “dey <i>voo</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">spinning playback head</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the disorienting feeling of meeting back up with an old friend and realizing that you’ve become different people on divergent paths—that even though they’re standing right in front of you, the person you once knew isn’t really there anymore.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">After the part of a VCR that reads the signal on a videotape.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 198" id="page_198" role="doc-pagebreak"/>inerrata</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a kind of mistake you wouldn’t take back even if you could; the reluctance to disown a broken relationship or agonizing experience that has since become part of who you are, and trying to disown it would mean you’re trying to live some other life.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>in-</i>, not + <i>errata</i>, mistakes in a printed work. Pronounced “in-eh-<i>rah</i>-tuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">present-tense</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. intimidated by the awareness that you’re in the present moment, right now, inhabiting the single fleeting second that exists, feeling like a surfer riding a cresting wave across an infinite sea, desperate to keep your balance, but unsure whether to lean forward or lean back.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>present</i>, the moment at hand + <i>tense</i>, in a state of nervous strain.</p>
<p class="dfhead">affogatia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the weird loneliness of antiquated fads and memes and one-hit wonders, which tried so hard to capture their own era that they inadvertently became embedded in it.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Italian <i>affogato</i>, drowned. Pronounced “ah-fuh<i>-gat</i>-yuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 199" id="page_199" role="doc-pagebreak"/>epistrix</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a disconcerting cluster of endings that all seem to happen at once; a random barrage of departures and closures and divorces and series finales and celebrity deaths, which leaves you anxiously aware that the author of your story seems to be wrapping up an awful lot of loose ends.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek ἐπὶ- (<i>epi-</i>), on top of + ὕστριξ (<i>hystrix</i>), a porcupine. To sit on a porcupine is to feel the pain of too many endings all at once. Pronounced “ih-<i>pis</i>-triks.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">solla, solla, solla</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> an incantation whispered privately to yourself to celebrate the loss of something or someone you loved, which almost makes it feel like a deliberate renunciation, consciously deciding to relinquish them to an earlier part of your life.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>solla</i>, whole, unbroken + Sesotho <i>fasolla</i>, to disconnect + Estonian <i>las olla</i>, let it be. Pronounced “suh-<i>lah</i>, suh<i>-lah</i>, suh<i>-lah</i>.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>