<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Avenoir</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 181" id="page_181" role="doc-pagebreak"/>AVENOIR</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the desire to see your memories in advance</i></p>
<p class="noindent">We take it for granted that life moves forward. You build memories, you build momentum. But you move as a rower moves: facing backward. You can see where you’ve been, but not where you’re going. And your boat is steered by a younger version of you. It’s hard not to wonder what life would be like facing the other way.</p>
<p class="indent">If your life ran backward, everything would have a sense of order, settling over time into a beautiful simplicity. You’d see your memories approaching for years and watch as they slowly became real. You’d know in advance which friendships will last, which days will prove important, and you could prepare in advance for upcoming mistakes. You wouldn’t have to wonder how much time you had left with people, or how their lives would turn out. You’d know from the start which week was the happiest you’ll ever be, so you could cherish every second of it, soaking it in while it lasts.</p>
<p class="indent">Your life would expand into epic drama. The colors would get sharper, the world would feel bigger. One by one, you’d patch things up with old friends, enjoying one last conversation before you meet and go your separate ways. Your family would drift slowly together, finding each other again. You’d fall out of old habits until you could picture yourself becoming <span aria-label="page 182" id="page_182" role="doc-pagebreak"/>almost anything. You’d graduate backward through school, and gradually learn to forget, first the little things, then the big things, gradually stripping away everything you didn’t need to know. You’d become nothing other than yourself, reveling in your own weirdness.</p>
<p class="indent">And then the world would finally earn your trust, until you’d think nothing of jumping freely into things, into the arms of other people. You’d remember what home feels like, and decide to move there for good. You’d grow smaller as the years pass, as if trying to give away everything you had before leaving. You’d try everything one last time, until it all felt new again. Then you’d start to notice that each summer feels longer than the last, until you reach the long coasting retirement of childhood.</p>
<p class="indent">You’d become generous and give everything back. Pretty soon you’d run out of things to give, things to say, things to see. By then you’ll have found someone perfect, and they’ll become your world. And you will have left this world just as you found it. Nothing left to remember, nothing left to regret, with your whole life laid out in front of you, and your whole life left behind.</p>
<p class="fntxt">French <i>avenir</i>, future + <i>avoir</i>, to have. Pronounced “av-uh-<i>nwar</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">echthesia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a state of confusion when your own internal sense of time doesn’t seem to match that of the calendar—knowing <span aria-label="page 183" id="page_183" role="doc-pagebreak"/>that something <i>just happened</i> though it apparently took place seven years ago, or that you somehow built up a decade of memories in the span of only a year and a half.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Greek εχθές (<i>echthés</i>), yesterday + αἴσθησις (<i>aísthēsis</i>), sensation. Pronounced “ek-<i>thee</i>-zhuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">walloway</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a sense memory you’ve mulled over so thoroughly that it’s become totally drained of emotion—having replayed an old song to death, over-binged a favorite sitcom, or spent too much time in the old neighborhood—inadvertently depleting a wellspring of nostalgia by watering it down with newer connotations.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>wallow</i>, to indulge or soak in something + <i>away</i>. Pronounced “<i>wol</i>-uh-wey.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">nowlings</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the total set of human beings alive at any given time, a group that nudges slightly forward whenever a new baby is born or the world’s oldest person dies, and turns over completely every hundred years or so; a random assemblage of billions of contemporaries who you feel an odd sense of connection to, because whatever problems we might face right now, we’re all facing them simultaneously.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>now</i>, the present moment + -<i>lings</i>, inhabitants of.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 184" id="page_184" role="doc-pagebreak"/>emorries</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> vivid memories of a certain experience that you carry in your head for years until they’re casually disputed by someone who remembers it very differently—correcting basic chronology, clarifying a misread gesture, or adding context you never knew—which makes you want to look again at all the images you’ve been using to piece together your worldview, wondering what details might’ve been hidden in shadow all this time, or washed out by your own naïveté.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">After documentary filmmaker Errol Morris, whose work often addresses the fallibility of memory and how little of reality can be captured in a photograph. Pronounced “<i>em</i>-uh-reez,” like <i>memories</i>, but with a piece missing.</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>