<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Yráth</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 239" id="page_239" role="doc-pagebreak"/>YRÁTH</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>hunger for mystery in a time of easy answers</i></p>
<p class="noindent">We’ll never invent a computer that could give us an answer to the meaning of life, the universe, and everything. But you have to wonder how close we might come one day—how many intractable mysteries will end up being solvable, how many inconveniences will get fixed over time.</p>
<p class="indent">It’s not hard to imagine how satisfying it would feel, cruising through the world on autopilot, along the optimum route at the optimum speed, hitting only the top-rated destinations. To have every question answered, every obstacle avoided, every risk insured in real time, with your odds of failure already calculated to the third decimal place, leaving you with little else to do but listen to a serene digital voice chime in with reminders and progress reports, muttering to yourself, <i>I know, I know, I know</i>.</p>
<p class="indent">But what are the odds that even then, you’d only end up feeling lost? Because there’s a part of you that doesn’t particularly want easy answers. That bristles at spoilers and step-by-step instructions, that wants to be fooled by magic tricks, that stirs to life whenever your phone dies and you find yourself lost in neighborhoods you’d otherwise never get to see. There’s still the art of the slow unveiling—learning <span aria-label="page 240" id="page_240" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the world by heart, piece by piece, in no particular rush—allowing yourself to soak in the mystery of things.</p>
<p class="indent">There’s some beauty left in mystery. The beauty of knowing that the ocean is still mostly uncharted, inhabited by creatures nobody’s ever seen, except for the scars they leave on the faces of whales. The beauty that we have names for planets that we’re not even sure exist. That the people of Ancient Greece lived out their lives within walking distance of Mount Olympus but never felt compelled to climb it, opting instead to let their gods live out their immortal lives in peace.</p>
<p class="indent">We should count ourselves lucky that we were born so early in history—back when the machine was only just starting to boot up, when it was still possible to go outside and savor a moment of in-betweenness. When you could still get out there in the early morning, pulling a canoe through the reeds on the edge of the lake, dropping a line, and waiting for a nibble in silence.</p>
<p class="indent">If nothing else, that silence reminds you to pay attention to the nature of things. Calibrating your senses, learning to recognize a glimmer of something real, turning in the deep. You have no idea what’s going to happen, if anything happens at all—but that’s alright, you’ve got nowhere to be.</p>
<p class="indent">As of this writing, there’s still no computer that can give us all the answers. No fish finder that can tell you when to set the hook. So you might as well sit back and soak in the suspense, and thank the gods that it’s still possible to get lost in the middle of nowhere, watching your line scribble across <span aria-label="page 241" id="page_241" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the water, humming softly to yourself, <i>I don’t know, I don’t know, I don’t know</i>.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Origin unknown. Pronounced “ee-<i>rawth</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">nodrophobia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the fear of irrevocable actions and irreversible processes—knowing that a colorful shirt will fade a little more with every wash, that your tooth enamel is wearing away molecule by molecule, never to grow back.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Greek μονόδρομος (<i>monódromos)</i>, one-way street + -φοβία (<i>-phobía</i>), fear. Pronounced “noh-droh-<i>foh</i>-bee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">evertheless</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the fear that this is ultimately as good as your life is ever going to get—that the ebb and flow of your fortunes is actually just now hitting its high-water mark, and soon enough you’ll sense the tide of life slowly begin to recede.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>ever</i> + <i>nevertheless</i>. Pronounced “ev-er-thuh-<i>les</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 242" id="page_242" role="doc-pagebreak"/>tornomov</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the weird hollowness of trying to imagine the distant future—struggling to place it in any sort of context you’d find relatable but straining to believe it could feel all that different from the world around you.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">A word that looks like <i>tomorrow</i> from a distance but is actually something else that you can’t really explain. Occasionally nuclear engineers try to work out how to warn future generations to stay away from radioactive waste sites, where it won’t be safe to dig for ten thousand years. There are many challenges: stainless steel signs will eventually rust away, etchings in granite will be buffed clean by sandstorms, huge menacing earthworks shrouded in vegetation. Any words or symbols we leave behind will surely have lost their meaning by then, the Gregorian calendar replaced five times over, erasing any sense of when AD 12000 was supposed to be. It makes you wonder: If it seems impossible to pass a message beyond our own little neighborhood in time, impossible even to warn our descendants not to dig into poisoned ground, what relationship do we have to them? Pronounced “<i>tohr</i>-noh-mawf.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">aponemia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the peculiar quality of never having chosen to be born, which is shared by everyone else around you; the curious awareness that even though earthly life might be the most exciting party in the universe, somehow everyone in attendance had been dragged here by a friend or stumbled in by accident.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Greek απονέμω (<i>aponémo</i>), to bestow. Pronounced “ap-uh-<i>nee</i>-mee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 243" id="page_243" role="doc-pagebreak"/>rialtoscuro</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the disorientation of stepping outside a movie theater into unexpected darkness—a twinge of jet lag after letting your mind escape to some other world for a while, only to be thrown abruptly back into reality.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Italian <i>rialto</i>, a theater district + <i>oscuro</i>, dark, obscure. Compare <i>chiaroscuro</i>, which describes a quality of visual art that emphasizes the contrast between deep shade and bright light. Pronounced “ree-al-toh-<i>skyoor</i>-oh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">adomania</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the sense that the future is arriving ahead of schedule, that all those years with fanciful names are bursting from their hypothetical cages into the arena of the present, furiously bucking your grip while you slip around in your saddle, with one hand reaching for the reins, the other waving up high like a schoolkid who finally knows the answer to the question.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Italian <i>a domani</i>, until tomorrow + <i>mania</i>. Pronounced “ad-uh-<i>mey</i>-nee-uh.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>