<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Nodus Tollens</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 216" id="page_216" role="doc-pagebreak"/>NODUS TOLLENS</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the sense that your life doesn’t fit into a story</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Your life is a story. A torrent of overlapping moments, rushing at you in no particular order. As the days flip past, it all happens far too quickly to absorb—a mess of seemingly random events. Every once in a while, you look back and highlight certain memories as important, as turning points in the main plot. You trace each thread back to its origin, finding omens and ironies scattered along the way, until it all feels inevitable, and your life makes sense.</p>
<p class="indent">But there are times when you look up and realize that the plot of your life doesn’t make sense to you anymore. You thought you were following the arc of the story, but you keep finding yourself immersed in passages you don’t understand. Either everything seems important or nothing does. It’s just a tangled mess of moments that keeps changing depending on what you choose to highlight.</p>
<p class="indent">You look around and wonder, <i>What kind of story is this?</i> Just another coming-of-age tale, the same one your parents told, with the names switched around? Is your everyday life part of the origin story of something truly epic? Are you unwittingly getting by on other people’s charity, mistaking <span aria-label="page 217" id="page_217" role="doc-pagebreak"/>your own luck for your own success? Are you a character in a romance, a tragedy, a travelogue, or just another cautionary tale?</p>
<p class="indent">As you thumb through the years, you may never know where this all is going. The only thing you know is that there’s more to the story. That soon enough you’ll flip back to this day looking for clues of what was to come, rereading all the chapters you tried to skim through to get to the good parts—only to learn that all along, you were supposed to choose your own adventure.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Latin <i>nodus tollens</i>, literally “the knot that denies by denying.” In propositional logic, <i>modus tollens</i> (with an <i>m</i>) is a kind of argument that goes like this: “If P, then Q. But Q is not. Therefore, P must not be.” Also known as going back and questioning your first assumptions when things don’t work out the way you expected. Pronounced “<i>noh</i>-dus <i>tah</i>-luhns.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">rookish</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. feeling a vague longing for some sort of monarch to look down upon us from a high and distant castle, which you’d imagine would pacify the squabbling chaos of civic life and drastically narrow the range of choices and issues you have to think about, finally freeing you up from bearing the microscopic fraction of a crown that forever hangs over your head.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From the chess move of castling, which is when a rook rushes to protect the king, nearly swapping places with him.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 218" id="page_218" role="doc-pagebreak"/>kadot</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. fear of the prospect of not existing one day, feeling like a student about to graduate from the universe, on the cusp of a transition you don’t feel ready for.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Finnish <i>kadotus</i>, perdition, which once meant “loss” but now means “eternal damnation.” Pronounced “kuh-<i>doh</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">aoyaoia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a musical flavor found in electric guitar solos that compels you to snarl, squint, and arch your spine like a yowling jungle cat.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Onomatopoeic to the wail of an electric guitar. Pronounced “ow-<i>yow</i>-yuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">dystoria</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a feeling of irrelevance from the broader forces of history; the sense that your life has no relationship to any great mission, no generational hardship, not even an enemy—feeling as harmless as a droplet skittering down a window, that could’ve just as easily taken part in a tidal wave.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>dys</i>-, bad + <i>historia</i>, history. Pronounced “dis-<i>toh</i>-ree-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 219" id="page_219" role="doc-pagebreak"/>craxis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the unease of knowing how quickly your circumstances could change on you—that no matter how carefully you shape your life into what you want it to be, the whole thing could be overturned in an instant, with little more than a single word, a single step, a phone call out of the blue, and by the end of next week you might already be looking back on this morning as if it were a million years ago, a poignant last hurrah of normal life.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>crāstinō diē</i>, tomorrow + <i>praxis</i>, the process of turning theory into reality. Pronounced “<i>krak</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">aimonomia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the fear that learning the name of something—a bird, a constellation, an attractive stranger—will somehow ruin it, inadvertently transforming a lucky discovery into a conceptual husk pinned in a glass case, leaving one less mystery fluttering around in the universe.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">French <i>aimer</i>, to love + <i>nom</i>, name. A palindrome. Pronounced “eym-uh-<i>nohm</i>-ee-uh.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>