<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Chthosis</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 233" id="page_233" role="doc-pagebreak"/>CHTHOSIS</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the awareness of how little we really know</i></p>
<p class="noindent">There’s something unsettling about the idea of a black hole. To think that there’s a threshold beyond which there is no return, with everything that crosses it locked away forever, a treasure box of mysteries that can never be opened. But then again, most of life is like that. You are surrounded by event horizons wherever you go. You can sense it in the black void at the foot of the basement stairs, or while driving in a ghostly fog that seems to erase the world beyond your windshield, or when treading water in the ocean, feeling miles of heavy nothing below your kicking feet.</p>
<p class="indent">There’s a certain thrill to those moments, when you dangle yourself over the edge of the abyss, wondering what might be out there. Knowing it might be seething with powerful forces you’re unable to see, lurking right there in front of you. But before long, you turn back to the comfortable world you know—the world of streetlamps and door locks, and the lulling chatter of a TV left on in the other room.</p>
<p class="indent">The trouble is, you don’t know what you don’t know. So even when you think you’ve pulled back from the edge of the abyss, you might’ve wandered a few steps closer. Of course, you’d just as well prefer not to think about all those unknown unknowns. Every year, there are tens of thousands <span aria-label="page 234" id="page_234" role="doc-pagebreak"/>of people who simply vanish without a trace and are never found. It happens all the time. The owner of a little antiques shop in Wales leaves a note on the door saying, “Back in two minutes,” steps down the street to buy an apple and a banana, and is never seen again. The prime minister of Australia goes out for a swim before lunch on a Sunday, and soon enough a new election is held, and the search party is called off for good. An airliner full of passengers settles into its flight path and then disappears from the radar, as if it had never existed.</p>
<p class="indent">You don’t particularly care to know the proportion of murders that go unsolved for lack of leads, or how easily locks can be picked and systems can be hacked. Surely someone must’ve tested the integrity of the bridge under your feet, the roof over your head, the medicine you take, the water you drink every day. Surely someone would pass by and help you dig your way out of a snowbank, or notice that your boat still hasn’t returned by nightfall, having drifted well out of sight of land. Surely there’s some adult somewhere, keeping an eye on things.</p>
<p class="indent">But if we’re the adults, and there’s nobody else to watch out for us, it means we’re out here on our own, floating free. And no matter where you go, and no matter how safe you feel, you’re still treading water in the deep end, kicking away, vulnerable to forces you can’t control. Even now, the ocean of tomorrow is looming just outside your eyeline.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe it’s healthy to soak in that feeling, to lean out over <span aria-label="page 235" id="page_235" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the edge and stare into the abyss, and remind ourselves of the weight of everything we don’t know. If only to get us to hold on tighter to the structures we do have—the handrail on the basement stairs, the fence around the playground, the rules and norms of a civil society. If we forgo the comfort of absolute certainty, we might be better adults for each other, asking more questions, wondering what we might be missing.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe then we’d feel a little more at home in this mostly unknowable universe, making our peace with the chaos of it, even finding comfort in the responsibility it gives us. <i>What might be out there? Nobody knows!</i></p>
<p class="fntxt">From <i>chthonic</i>, dwelling beneath the surface of the Earth. Pronounced “<i>kthoh</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">nilous</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. anxious to imagine how many times you must’ve barely avoided catastrophe—the morning you missed the bus that later went on to crash, the day you stayed onshore when it was a bit too rough out there—which makes it feel like something of a fluke that you’ve survived this long, as if you’re on an unbroken streak of coin flips, heads after heads after heads, wondering when your luck is going to run out.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Old English <i>nigh</i>, almost + <i>nihil,</i> nothing. Pronounced “<i>nahy</i>-lis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 236" id="page_236" role="doc-pagebreak"/>offtides</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. beginning to suspect that you’re living in a bizarre alternate reality, as if you had stumbled into a shimmering “What if?” thought bubble that somehow kept going, episode after episode.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">After <i>off</i>, the state of being not quite normal or sane + <i>offsides</i>, a sports offense in which you find yourself on the wrong side at the wrong moment + <i>tides</i>, the normal ebb and flow of time.</p>
<p class="dfhead">starlorn</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a sense of loneliness looking up at the night sky, feeling like a castaway marooned in the middle of the ocean, whose currents are steadily carrying off all other castaways—entire worlds and stars whose only remnant is a scrap of light they flung overboard centuries ago, a message in a bottle that’s only just now washing up on our shores.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>star</i>, a luminous dot in the cloudless sky <i>+ -lorn</i>, sorely missing. Pronounced “<i>stahr</i>-lawrn.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">caucic</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. afraid that the rest of your life is already laid out in front of you, that you’re being swept inexorably along a series of predictable milestones—from school to graduation to career to marriage to kids to retirement to death—which makes you wish you could pull off to the side of the road for <span aria-label="page 237" id="page_237" role="doc-pagebreak"/>a little while, to stretch your legs and spread out the map so you can double-check that you’re headed the right way.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>cauci</i>, path or road + <i>caustic</i>, able to burn or corrode living tissue. Pronounced “<i>kaw</i>-sik.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">irrition</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. regret at having cracked the code of something, which leaves you wishing you could forget the pattern—longing to unsee an optical illusion, to unlearn the formula behind your favorite songs and shows and movies, or re-canonize a role model you made the mistake of meeting in person.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Tahitian <i>iriti</i>, to translate + <i>iriti</i>, to be convulsed. Pronounced “ih-<i>ri</i>-shun.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">eftless</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> mildly disappointed that you’ll never be able to attend your own memorial service; frustrated that you could spend your entire life trying to build some sort of legacy to leave behind, but just barely miss your chance to catch a glimpse of what that legacy might be.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">German <i>Effekt</i>, effect + <i>less</i>. As he was dying at age forty, Franz Kafka instructed his friend Max Brod to burn all his literary works upon his death, but Brod famously defied the request and published them to worldwide acclaim. At the time, Max Brod had been a household name, a celebrated author whose first novel was hailed as a masterpiece. Meanwhile, Kafka had spent his life walking the streets of Prague as a <span aria-label="page 238" id="page_238" role="doc-pagebreak"/>complete unknown, and died without ever suspecting that his hometown would soon become synonymous with his name. The world had been unequivocal in its judgment of the two writers, but posterity soon overturned the verdict.</p>
<p class="dfhead">beloiter</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>v. intr.</i> to look around in a state of mild astonishment that your life is somehow <i>still going</i>, as if a part of you had just assumed that your allotment of days would’ve been used up by now, standing there like a player at a slot machine, perpetually surprised that your winnings continue to trickle out, but not sure what you’re supposed to do now.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>to be</i> + <i>to loiter</i>, to hang around someplace with no particular agenda. Pronounced “bih-<i>loi</i>-ter.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">karanoia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the terror of the blank page, which can feel both liberating and confining, in both the limitlessness of its potential and the looseness of its boundaries.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Japanese <span class="f1">空の</span> (<i>kara-no</i>), blank. Pronounced “kar-uh-<i>noi</i>-uh.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>