<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Astrophe</title>
<!-- <link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/> -->
<script src="./script.js"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 11" id="page_11" role="doc-pagebreak"/>ASTROPHE</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the feeling of being stuck on Earth</i></p>
<p class="noindent">It’s hard not to look at the ground as you walk. To set your sights low, and keep the world spinning, just trying to stay present wherever you are. But every so often you remember to look up at the stars, and imagine what’s out there. Before long, you find yourself grounded once again—grounded in the sense of being housebound, stuck on the planet Earth.</p>
<p class="indent">The more you look to the sky, the more you find yourself back on Earth, confronting certain possibilities. It’s possible there are other names for our planet that we will never know. That there are constellations that feature our sun, from an angle we’ll never get to see. That there are many other civilizations hidden beyond the veil of time, too far away for their light to ever reach us.</p>
<p class="indent">We dream of other worlds and name them after old discarded gods, and they seem almost as distant—too far to be seen with the naked eye. Too far even to be seen with our sharpest telescopes, leaning out over the far edge of our atmosphere. They exist only in probabilistic blips in the data, hinting that something must be blocking the starlight at certain intervals. Somehow that’s enough to extrapolate entire worlds out there, as if they were ripe for the taking, but many of these distant galaxies and exoplanets will only ever exist <span aria-label="page 12" id="page_12" role="doc-pagebreak"/>in artists’ renditions, with the colors tweaked to add a bit of flair.</p>
<p class="indent">Even our own solar system is eerily sparse. In textbooks, we tend to print all the planets nested tightly together, because if we tried to draw them to scale, they’d be so small and far apart, they wouldn’t even fit in the same room. Even our own moon, which seems to hang so close to Earth, is so far away that all the other planets could fit in the empty space between them. And of all the billions of people on Earth, only twelve of them have ever pushed free and set foot on alien soil.</p>
<p class="indent">It’s possible that our spacesuits won’t need treaded boots ever again. That one day soon we’ll tire of exploring and move back home for good. And we’ll get used to watching our feet as we walk, occasionally stopping to hurl a single probe into the abyss, like a message in a bottle.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe it shouldn’t matter if anyone ever finds it. If nobody’s there to know we once lived here on Earth. Maybe it should be like skipping a stone across the surface of a lake. It doesn’t matter where it ends up. All that matters is that we’re here on the shore—trying to have fun and pass the time, and see how far it goes.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Ancient Greek ᾰ̓́στρον (<i>ástron</i>), star + ἀτροφία (<i>atrophía</i>), a wasting away due to lack of use. Pronounced “<i>as</i>-truh-fee.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 13" id="page_13" role="doc-pagebreak"/>ameneurosis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the half-forlorn, half-escapist ache of a train whistle howling in the distance at night.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>amen</i>, “so be it” + <i>neurosis</i>, an anxious state + <i>amanuensis</i>, an assistant who helps transcribe newly composed music. A train whistle is the sound of air being forced across a gap, which serves as a poignant reminder of all the gaps in your life. Pronounced “ah-men-nyoo-<i>roh</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">volander</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the ethereal feeling of looking down at the world through an airplane window, able to catch a glimpse of far-flung places you’d never see in person, free to let your mind wander, trying to imagine what they must feel like down on the ground—the closest you’ll ever get to an objective point of view.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>volare</i>, to fly + <i>solander</i>, a book-shaped box for storing maps. Pronounced “voh-<i>land</i>-uhr.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 14" id="page_14" role="doc-pagebreak"/>licotic</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> anxiously excited to introduce a friend to something you think is amazing—a classic album, a favorite restaurant, a TV show they’re lucky enough to watch for the very first time—which prompts you to continually poll their face waiting for the inevitable rush of awe, only to cringe when you discover all the work’s flaws shining through for the very first time.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Old English <i>licode</i>, it pleased [you] + <i>psychotic</i>. Pronounced “lahy-<i>kot</i>-ic.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">fitzcarraldo</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a random image that becomes lodged deep in your brain—maybe washed there by a dream, or smuggled inside a book, or planted during a casual conversation—which then grows into a wild and impractical vision that keeps scrambling around in your head, itching for a chance to leap headlong into reality.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From the title character of the 1982 film <i>Fitzcarraldo</i>, directed by Werner Herzog, about a man who is overcome by the thought of hearing Caruso’s operatic tenor echoing through the Peruvian jungle; to fund this effort he hires local people to pull a steamship over a mountain, a feat that was done for real for the film’s production. Pronounced “fits-kuh-<i>rawl</i>-doh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 15" id="page_15" role="doc-pagebreak"/>exulansis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the tendency to give up trying to talk about an experience because people are unable to relate to it—whether through envy or pity or mere foreignness—which allows it to drift away from the rest of your story, until it feels out of place, almost mythical, wandering restlessly in the fog, no longer even looking for a place to land.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>exulans</i>, exile, wanderer, derived from the Latin name of the Wandering Albatross, <i>diomedea exulans</i>, who spend most of their life in flight, rarely landing, going hours without even flapping their wings. The albatross is a symbol of good luck, a curse, and a burden, and sometimes all three at once. Pronounced “ek-suh-<i>lan</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">la cuna</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a twinge of sadness that there’s no frontier left, that as the last explorer trudged his armies toward the last blank spot on the map, he didn’t suddenly turn for home, leaving one last island unexplored so we could set it aside as a strategic reserve of mystery.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>lacuna</i>, an unfilled space or hole + Spanish <i>la cuna</i>, cradle. Pronounced “lah <i>koo</i>-nuh.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>