<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Chapter One: Between Living and Dreaming</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="dfheadx"><span aria-label="page 4" id="page_4" role="doc-pagebreak"/><span aria-label="page 5" id="page_5" role="doc-pagebreak"/>chrysalism</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the amniotic tranquility of being indoors during a thunderstorm.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>chrysalis</i>, the pupa of a butterfly. Pronounced “<i>kris</i>-uh-liz-uhm.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">trumspringa</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the longing to wander off your career track in pursuit of a simple life—tending a small farm in a forest clearing, keeping a lighthouse on a secluded atoll, or becoming a shepherd in the mountains—which is just the kind of hypnotic diversion that allows your thoughts to make a break for it and wander back to their cubicles in the city.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">German <i>Stadtzentrum</i>, “city center” + Pennsylvania German <i>Rumspringa</i>, “hopping around.” Rumspringa is a putative tradition in which Amish teens dip their toes in modernity for a while before choosing whether to commit to the traditional way of life. Pronounced “<i>truhm</i>-spring-guh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">kairosclerosis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the moment you look around and realize that you’re currently happy—consciously trying to savor the feeling—which prompts your intellect to identify it, pick it apart, <span aria-label="page 6" id="page_6" role="doc-pagebreak"/>and put it in context, where it will slowly dissolve until it’s little more than an aftertaste.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek καιρός (<i>kairos</i>), a sublime or opportune moment + σκλήρωσις (<i>skl</i>ḗ<i>rōsis</i>), hardening. Pronounced “kahy-roh-skluh-<i>roh</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">scabulous</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> proud of a certain scar on your body, which is like an autograph signed to you by a world grateful for your continued willingness to play with her, even if it hurts.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>scab</i> + <i>fabulous</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead">occhiolism</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the awareness of how fundamentally limited your senses are—noticing how little of your field of vision is ever in focus, how few colors you’re able to see, how few sounds you’re able to hear, and how intrusively your brain fills in the blanks with its own cartoonish extrapolations—which makes you wish you could experience the whole of reality instead of only ever catching a tiny glimpse of it, to just once step back from the keyhole and finally open the door.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Italian <i>occhiolino</i> (“little eye”), the original name that Galileo gave to the microscope in 1609. Pronounced “<i>oh</i>-kyoh-liz-uhm.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>