<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Koinophobia</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 49" id="page_49" role="doc-pagebreak"/>KOINOPHOBIA</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the fear that you’ve lived an ordinary life</i></p>
<p class="noindent">While you’re in it, life seems epic. Fiery, tenuous, and unpredictable. But when you look back over your story, or try to put it down on paper, you can see more of it at once than ever before—and yet it seems somehow diminished. Humble. Almost quaint.</p>
<p class="indent">So you begin scanning your life, looking for something interesting or beautiful. You see an ordinary house, on an ordinary street. It looks smaller than you remember. You once had wild dreams and obstacles and risks looming all around you, but now those look smaller, too. You remember giants and goddesses and villains, but now all you see are ordinary people, assembled in their tiny classrooms and workspaces, each moving around in little steps, like tokens on a game board.</p>
<p class="indent">No matter how many times you rolled the dice, it was always these little moves, here and there. Do a little work. Take a little rest. Make a little friend. Throw a little party. Feel a little boredom. Have a little rebellion. There are so many of these token moments, that you could have sworn were supposed to represent something else, something bigger. You keep adding them all up, as if there were something <span aria-label="page 50" id="page_50" role="doc-pagebreak"/>you must’ve forgotten to count, some stash of glory that fell off the back of a truck.</p>
<p class="indent">You may well adore the life you have for everything it is. You know it isn’t groundbreaking, but you wouldn’t change a thing. Still, you can’t shake the feeling that something is missing.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe the trouble is, you were never really “in it” to begin with. Maybe when you first started building the life you wanted, you put so much thought into what might happen that you started losing sight of what was happening. As if you had known all along that this wasn’t the world you expected. A world so low and common that you tried to keep your distance, so you began floating somewhere above it, where nobody else could look down on this life you built. That is, nobody else but you.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Ancient Greek κοινός (<i>koinós</i>), common, ordinary, stripped of specialness + -φοβία (-<i>phobía</i>), fear. Pronounced “key-noh-<i>foh</i>-bee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">keep</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> an important part of your personality that others seldom see—a secret flaw, a hidden talent, trauma that never comes up, dreams you never mention—that remains a vital part of who you are even if nobody knows it’s there, like the sprawling archives in the attics of museums, packed with works far too priceless to risk being displayed for the public.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From a <i>keep</i>, the innermost tower of a castle.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 51" id="page_51" role="doc-pagebreak"/>agnosthesia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the state of not knowing how you really feel about something, which forces you to sift through clues hidden in your own behavior, as if you were some other person—noticing a twist of acid in your voice, an obscene amount of effort you put into something trifling, or an inexplicable weight on your shoulders that makes it difficult to get out of bed.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek ἄγνωστος (<i>ágnōstos</i>), not knowing + διάθεσις (<i>diáthesis</i>), condition, mood. Pronounced “ag-nos-<i>thee</i>-zhuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">trueholding</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the act of trying to keep an amazing discovery to yourself, fighting the urge to shout about it from the rooftops because you’re afraid that it’ll end up being diluted and distorted, and will no longer have been created just for you.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In the Tolkien legendarium, <i>Trahald</i> is the true name of Sméagol (Gollum), a creature who spent centuries hiding in dark wet caves, enthralled in jealous worship of his precious enchanted ring.</p>
<p class="dfhead">punt kick</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a quiet jolt of recognition that it’s time to become a better version of yourself, sensing that all the strategies that brought you this far are no longer working—that it’s <span aria-label="page 52" id="page_52" role="doc-pagebreak"/>not enough anymore to be cute or nice or righteous or tough—as if you’ve now entered a new phase in the game of life, moving forward with a completely different token.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Dutch <i>puntstuk</i>, railway frog, which is the part of a railway switch where two rails intersect. Sometimes you can feel a little kick when your train passes over it, as if the world is trying to signal you’re missing a turn, having traveled too far on the same old track.</p>
<p class="dfhead">fool’s guilt</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a pulse of shame you feel even though you’ve done nothing wrong—passing a police car while under the speed limit, being carded after legally ordering a drink, or exiting a store without buying anything.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>fool’s gold</i> + <i>guilt</i>. Also known as a <i>reverse Alford plea,</i> whereby you plead innocent to all charges but want the judge to know that you feel kinda guilty anyway.</p>
<p class="dfhead">endzoned</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the hollow feeling of having gotten exactly what you thought you wanted, only to learn that it didn’t make you happy.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In sports, the <i>endzone</i> is the final goal, the end of the line—but at a certain point you have to drop the ball.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 53" id="page_53" role="doc-pagebreak"/>candling</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>v. intr.</i> the habit of taking stock of your life on the occasion of your birthday—letting it serve as a kind of internal referendum on all your goals and qualities and relationships and accomplishments so far—which makes you want to dress just a little nicer that day, as if you’re standing before a parole board that convenes once a year to adjudicate your release from childhood.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>candling</i>, a method of egg inspection in which an egg is backlit with a candle flame to reveal how the chick is growing, or if it’s there at all.</p>
<p class="dfhead">altschmerz</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a sense of weariness with the same old problems that you’ve always had, the same boring issues and anxieties you’ve been gnawing on for decades, which makes you want to spit them out and dig up some fresher pain you might have buried in your mental backyard.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">German <i>alt</i>, old + <i>Schmerz</i>, pain. Pronounced “<i>alt</i>-shmerts.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">lyssamania</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the irrational fear that someone you know is angry at you, that as soon as you wander into the room, you’ll be faced with a barrage of questions that gradually escalates <span aria-label="page 54" id="page_54" role="doc-pagebreak"/>into a frenzy of outrage, for reasons that you don’t understand.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In Ancient Greek mythology, the <i>Maniae</i> are spirits who personified insanity, along with their sister <i>Lyssa,</i> who was known for erupting into rages. Pronounced “lis-uh-<i>mey</i>-nee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">tarrion</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> an odd interval of blankness you feel after something big happens to you but before you feel the resulting emotional reaction—stunned by a sudden loss, a stroke of luck, or an unexpected visitor—like those tension-filled seconds between a flash of lightning and the thunderclap that follows, which gives you a hint of how near you are to the coming storm.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>tarry</i>, to be late to react, or linger in expectation + <i>carry on</i>. Pronounced “<i>tar</i>-ee-uhn.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">wellium</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> an excuse you come up with to rationalize a disappointing outcome—telling yourself you weren’t in the mood for that sold-out show anyway, that your safety school is actually a better fit, that your dream job might have been a bit too stressful.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From the phrase “Well, I… um…,” which typically precedes such an excuse. Pronounced “<i>wel</i>-ee-uhm.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>