<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Alazia</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 63" id="page_63" role="doc-pagebreak"/>ALAZIA</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the fear that you’re no longer able to change</i></p>
<p class="noindent">When you were born, you could have been anybody. So quick and malleable, your parents could look at your face and see a future president. They tried to mold you as you grew, but they could only work with what they had. And when their tools stopped working, they gradually handed them off to you, asking, “What do you want to be when you grow up?”</p>
<p class="indent">There’s a certain art to becoming who you are. There’s no standard kit you can use to assemble yourself, swapping out parts as needed. Instead, it feels more like a kind of stretching, a teasing out at the edges, like a glassblower standing at the furnace.</p>
<p class="indent">A teenage personality is a delicate medium, its emotions almost too heavy to handle. You had to figure out a way to keep yourself together and tease out the good parts without falling out of balance or stretching yourself too thin. You couldn’t stop everything to try to fix your flaws, but you couldn’t just ignore them either. Luckily, you were nothing if not flexible, softened by the heat of youth, which kept you warm on a dingy couch or a night in the wilderness. You knew that you weren’t just you, you were also the person <span aria-label="page 64" id="page_64" role="doc-pagebreak"/>you would one day become. So even when you failed, you could still be whatever you wanted to be. As long as you kept moving.</p>
<p class="indent">Inevitably you got hit, and you got hurt. You prided yourself on how well you absorbed the blow, bouncing back as if nothing had happened. But the pain changed you, in little chips and cracks that might take you years to notice. Over time you learned how to position yourself in very specific ways, protecting the most vulnerable parts of your psyche, even as you knew they were still a crucial part of the real you. Gradually you became more and more reluctant to move from that position. Growing a little harder, a little more brittle.</p>
<p class="indent">And now here you are. Sometimes you find yourself wondering if you can change, even if you wanted to. If you still have enough fire in the belly to surprise yourself, or if you’re already set in your ways, too tough and cynical to stretch without shattering. Maybe you spent so long wondering who you were going to be one day, you forgot that that question actually has an answer, and that “one day” would soon arrive.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe it’s too late for you to change who you are. Or maybe you’re just entering a new phase, undergoing a change so profound that even your understanding of <i>change</i> is becoming unrecognizable. Maybe now is the time to stress-test your own assumptions about yourself, stripping away all the flourishes and ornaments that you don’t really need, honing yourself down to the core of who you are. And even if it’s <span aria-label="page 65" id="page_65" role="doc-pagebreak"/>true that you’re no longer flexible enough to be anybody, you might be getting strong enough to finally be yourself.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Greek αλλάζω (<i>allázo</i>), to change + <i>dysplasia</i>, abnormal development of tissue. Pronounced “uh-<i>ley</i>-zhuh” or “ah-<i>ley</i>-zee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">the wends</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the frustration that you’re not enjoying an experience as much as you should, which prompts you to try plugging in various thought combinations to trigger anything more intense than roaring static, as if your heart had been inadvertently demagnetized by a surge of expectations.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>wend</i>, to wander unpredictably along a predetermined path. Compare <i>the bends</i>, which occurs when a diver ascends too quickly and gas bubbles begin to form in their tissues, a condition that can be debilitating or fatal.</p>
<p class="dfhead">apolytus</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the moment you realize you are changing as a person, finally outgrowing your old problems like a reptile shedding its skin, already able to twist back around and chuckle at this weirdly antiquated caricature of yourself that will soon come off completely.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>apolysis</i>, the stage of molting when an invertebrate’s shell begins to separate from the skin beneath it + <i>adultus</i>, sacrificed. Pronounced “ah-<i>pahl</i>-i-tuhs.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 66" id="page_66" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the standard blues</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the dispiriting awareness that the twists and turns of your life feel new and profound but are not unique—marked by the same coming-of-age struggles as millions of others, the same career setbacks, the same family strife, the same learning curve of parenting—which makes even your toughest challenges feel harmless and predictable, just another remake of the same old story.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">A riff on <i>blues standards</i>, the catalog of the most popular songs in the blues genre, which is itself famous for chord progressions that cycle through variations on a theme.</p>
<p class="dfhead">mcfeely</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> inexplicably moved by predictable and well-worn sentiments, even if they’re trite or obvious or being broadcast blindly to the masses.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From the middle name of Mr. Fred McFeely Rogers. You deserve to be happy. Your feelings matter. You are loved. You are enough.</p>
<p class="dfhead">ioia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the wish that you could see statistics overlaid on every person you encounter—checking the signal strength of their compatibility, a measure of their trustworthiness, or even just an emoji that tells you how they’re really feeling.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From the two symbols of binary code, <i>1</i> and <i>0</i>, denoting “on” or “off” + <i>I am</i>. Pronounced “ahy-<i>yo</i>-yuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 67" id="page_67" role="doc-pagebreak"/>flichtish</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> nervously aware how much of your self-image is based on untested assumptions about yourself—only ever guessing how you’d react to a violent threat, a sudden windfall, a huge responsibility, or being told to do something you knew was wrong.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">North Frisian <i>flicht</i>, maybe. Pronounced “<i>flik</i>-tish.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">insoucism</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the inability to decide how much sympathy your situation really deserves, knowing that so many people have it far worse and others far better, that some people would need years of therapy to overcome what you have, while others would barely think to mention it in their diary that day.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">French <i>soucis</i>, worries + <i>insouciance</i>, indifference. Who knows what an ordinary person should be expected to handle? Perhaps human life is so tough that we all deserve some sympathy. Or perhaps it’s such a privilege to be alive at all that none of us has the right to complain. Pronounced “in-<i>soo</i>-siz-uhm.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>