<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Kudoclasm</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 55" id="page_55" role="doc-pagebreak"/>KUDOCLASM</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>a cascading crisis of self-doubt</i></p>
<p class="noindent">A warning to Icarus, as he stretched out his wings for the first time: “Don’t fly too near the sun, nor the sea. One will melt the wax, and the other weigh down the feathers. Keep to the middle course.”</p>
<p class="indent">Most of the time your confidence carries on something like that, in a kind of self-correcting balance. Some days you wake up with your head in the clouds and you have to remind yourself to stay grounded. Other days you’re just barely slogging through, hoping something can lift your spirits. But it’s not always that simple. Sometimes you have no idea what to think about yourself, feeling somehow better than everybody but not good enough for anybody. Which is actually when you’re at your most precarious, feeling overdue for a correction. Something throws you off-balance, and you slip into a spiraling self-doubt—picking apart your wings, trying to figure out if your feathers are still attached.</p>
<p class="indent">You think over your life and realize how much of it is mythology, stories you tell yourself. How many half-hearted compliments have you taken to heart, how many of your friendships are kept together by little more than circumstance? You may love your partner but start to doubt how well that comes across. You may love your job but begin to <span aria-label="page 56" id="page_56" role="doc-pagebreak"/>question if it’s worth all the time it has cost you, knowing how easily your role could be refilled, your legacy tossed in a box. You wonder if you’re really any good at it, or have been ignoring warning signs that it’s time to try something else.</p>
<p class="indent">But what else could you try? How much do you really know about your interests? Do you actually like the things you like? What makes you happy? Surely it should be enough to sit by a pond in the park, watching the ducks, living in the moment. But what does that do for anybody? Where is the line between self-actualization and self-indulgence? How much of your time could be better spent trying to make a difference? Then again, what difference could you realistically hope to make? Perhaps you tell yourself it doesn’t matter as long as you do something—but wouldn’t that only prove you were doing it just for yourself, not for some greater cause? So where does that leave you?</p>
<p class="indent">You begin to wonder if you’ve spent your entire life buoyed by airy delusions, coasting along on unearned confidence. But if it’s possible to carry on that way indefinitely and not even notice, does it even matter whether any of it is real?</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe your self-mythology is no different than any other mythology. It’s a story that changes in the telling, evolving over time. Whatever resonates will stay, and what doesn’t will fall away. To pick away at the literal truth is to miss the point of it, miss the joy of it. So go ahead and build your myth. Try to tell a good story about yourself that captures something <i>true</i>, whether or not the facts agree.</p>
<p class="indent"><span aria-label="page 57" id="page_57" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Keep to the middle course. Steal bits of wax and feathers discarded by other, better fliers. Let the sun rise and fall. Let the waves pound themselves to mist, again and again. Your task is not to be flawless. Your task is to fly.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Ancient Greek κῦδος (<i>kûdos</i>), glory, praise + κλάω, (<i>kláō</i>), to break down. Pronounced “<i>koo</i>-doh-klaz-uhm.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">maugry</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> afraid that you’ve been mentally deranged all your life and everybody around you knows, but none of them mention it to you directly because they feel it’s not their place.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>maunder</i>, to mumble indistinctly + <i>maugre</i>, in spite of, notwithstanding. Pronounced “<i>maw</i>-gree.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">typifice</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a caricature of yourself that went out of date years ago, though nobody around you seems to have noticed.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Italian <i>tipi fissi</i>, “fixed types,” the stock characters in commedia dell’arte masked improvisational theater. Pronounced “<i>tip</i>-uh-fis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">proluctance</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the paradoxical urge to avoid doing something you’ve been looking forward to—opening a decisive letter, meeting up with a friend who’s finally back in town, reading a new book from your favorite author—perpetually waiting <span aria-label="page 58" id="page_58" role="doc-pagebreak"/>around for the right state of mind, stretching out the bliss of anticipation as long as you can.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>pro</i>-, forward + <i>reluctans</i>, resisting. Pronounced “proh-<i>luhk</i>-tuhns.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">viadne</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. alienation from the crude machinery of your own body—like riding a ramshackle parade float that’s run by gremlins you can’t see, who toil away in darkness, pulling strings to move your limbs, kneading your guts and working the bellows, trying to further your modern agenda using nothing more advanced than a sackful of bones and splanchnic ganglia, zapped by sparks in primordial ooze.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>via</i>, by way of + <i>viande</i>, meat. Pronounced “vee-<i>ad</i>-nee.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">aesthosis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the state of feeling trapped inside your own subjective tastes—not knowing <i>why</i> you find certain things beautiful or ugly, only that you do—wishing you could remove the sociopsychological lenses from your eyes so you could see the beauty in anything and be moved to tears by the smell of burning garbage, the aria of a screaming toddler, or a neon Elvis painted on black velvet.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>aesthetic</i>, concerned with beauty or artistry + <i>orthosis</i>, a brace that artificially straightens a weak or injured part of the body. Pronounced “es-<i>thoh</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 59" id="page_59" role="doc-pagebreak"/>loss of backing</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> an abrupt collapse of trust in yourself—having abandoned a resolution, surrendered to your demons, or squandered an opportunity you swore you’d take seriously this time—which resets your expectations and makes it that much harder to guarantee that your word is worth anything, even to yourself.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In economics, a <i>loss of backing</i> is when the government no longer guarantees the value of a certain currency, particularly when it’s not exchangeable for anything physical like gold or silver, thus it only retains value because we say it does.</p>
<p class="dfhead">malotype</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a certain person who embodies all the things you like the least about yourself—a seeming caricature of your worst tendencies—which leaves you feeling repulsed and fascinated in equal measure, having stumbled upon a role model of exactly the kind of person you never want to be.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>malus</i>, bad + <i>typus</i>, a kind of sculptor’s mold. A mold is essentially a negative image of the object you want to sculpt—so if you’re trying to shape yourself, perhaps a good first step is to scoop away the negative space. Pronounced “<i>mal</i>-uh-tahyp.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 60" id="page_60" role="doc-pagebreak"/>rubatosis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the unsettling awareness of your own heartbeat, whose tenuous muscular throbbing feels less like a metronome than a nervous ditty your heart is tapping to itself, as if to casually remind the outside world, <i>I’m here, I’m here, I’m here.</i></p>
<p class="dfsoot">In music, <i>tempo rubato</i>, “stolen time,” is a slight speeding up and slowing down of the tempo of a piece, borrowing time from one measure then paying it back later. Pronounced “roo-bah-<i>toh</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">leidenfreude</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a sense of paradoxical relief when something bad happens to you, which temporarily lowers your own expectations for yourself, transforming a faceless protagonist into something of an underdog, who’s that much easier to root for.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">German <i>Leiden</i>, suffering + <i>Freude</i>, joy. Compare <i>Schadenfreude</i>, joy at the misfortune of others. Pronounced “<i>lahyd</i>-n-froi-duh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">elsing</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the unconscious habit of looking at someone and seeing only a cartoon of what they represent to you, their face obscured by a superimposed image of someone else entirely—your mother, your school bully, or yourself in another time—which makes you wonder what others must see when they look at you from across the room.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>else</i>. Pronounced “<i>el</i>-sing.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 61" id="page_61" role="doc-pagebreak"/>1202</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the tipping point when your brain becomes so overwhelmed with tasks you need to do, you feel too guilty to put anything off until later, prioritizing every little thing at the top of the list, leaving you immobilized.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">During the lunar descent of Apollo 11, the “1202” alarm sounded just before landing, indicating that the computer was receiving more data than it could process. Pronounced “twelve oh two.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">the meantime</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the moment of realization that your quintessential future self isn’t ever going to show up, which forces the role to fall upon the understudy, the gawky kid who spent years mouthing their lines in the wings before being shoved into the glare of your life, which is already well into its second act.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>mean</i>, common, humble, low-grade + <i>the meantime</i>, the time spent waiting for some other event to occur.</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>