<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Chapter Two: The Interior Wilderness</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="dfheadx"><span aria-label="page 44" id="page_44" role="doc-pagebreak"/><span aria-label="page 45" id="page_45" role="doc-pagebreak"/>heartspur</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. an unexpected surge of emotion in response to a seemingly innocuous trigger—the distinctive squeal of a rusty fence, a key change in an old pop song, the hint of a certain perfume—which feels all the more intense because you can’t quite pin it down.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>heart</i> + <i>spur</i>, a spike on a heel that urges a horse to move forward.</p>
<p class="dfhead">vaucasy</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the fear that you’re little more than a product of your circumstances, that for all the thought you put into shaping your beliefs and behaviors and relationships, you’re essentially a dog being trained by whatever stimuli you happen to encounter—reflexively drawn to whoever gives you reliable hits of pleasure, skeptical of ideas that make you feel powerless.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From Jacques de Vaucanson, a French engineer who built a series of lifelike programmable machines (automata), including his masterpiece the <i>Digesting Duck</i>, which could flap its wings and quack, drink water, and digest bits of grain into simulated excrement. Pronounced “<i>vaw</i>-kuh-see.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 46" id="page_46" role="doc-pagebreak"/>liberosis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the desire to care less about things; to figure out a way to relax your grip on your life and hold it loosely and playfully, keeping it in the air like a volleyball, with quick and fleeting interventions, bouncing freely in the hands of trusted friends, always in play.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Italian <i>libero</i>, free. A <i>libero</i> is a position on a volleyball team that can move at greater liberty than other players, subbing freely and without permission, with an emphasis on keeping the ball in play. Pronounced “lib-er-<i>oh</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">emodox</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> someone whose mood is perpetually out of sync with everyone else around them, prone to feelings of naptime panic, heart-to-heart snark, or dance club pensiveness.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>emotional</i> + <i>dox</i>, not conforming to expected norms. Pronounced “<i>ee</i>-moh-doks.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 47" id="page_47" role="doc-pagebreak"/>nighthawk</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a recurring thought that only seems to strike you late at night—an overdue task, a nagging guilt, a looming future—which you sometimes manage to forget for weeks, only to feel it land on your shoulder once again, quietly building a nest.</p>
<p class="dfsoot"><i>Nighthawks</i> is a famous painting by Edward Hopper, depicting a lonely corner diner late at night. In logging, a <i>nighthawk</i> is a metal ball that slid up and down a riverboat’s flagpole, to aid pilots in navigation.</p>
<p class="dfhead">the giltwrights</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the imaginary committee of elders that keeps a running log of all your mistakes, steadily building their case that you’re secretly a fraud, a coward, a doofus, and a douche—who would’ve revoked your good fortune years ago had they not been hampered by their own bitter squabblings over proper grammar and spelling.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Old English <i>gilt</i>, awareness of wrongdoing + <i>wrought</i>, shaped with hammers. Pronounced “the <i>gilt</i>-rahyts.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 48" id="page_48" role="doc-pagebreak"/>nementia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the post-distraction effort to recall the reason you’re feeling particularly anxious or angry or excited, trying to retrace your sequence of thoughts like a kid gathering the string of a downed kite.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek νέμειν (<i>némein</i>), to give what is due + Latin <i>dementia</i>, without mind. Pronounced “ne-<i>men</i>-shuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">the whipgraft delusion</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the phenomenon in which you catch your reflection in the mirror and get the sense that you’re peering into the eyes of a stranger, as if you’re looking at a police sketch of your own face aged forward twenty years, which would imply that the real you is out there somewhere, wandering the streets of your old neighborhood, still at large.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In horticulture, <i>whip grafting</i> is when you fuse the top of one plant to the bottom of another. In psychology, <i>the Capgras delusion</i> is the conviction that a loved one has been replaced by an identical-looking imposter.</p>
<p class="dfhead">deep gut</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a resurgent emotion that you hadn’t felt in years, that you might have forgotten about completely if your emotional playlist hadn’t accidentally been left on shuffle.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In music, a <i>deep cut</i> is a lesser-known track that only an artist’s true fans or completists might appreciate.</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>