<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Moment Of Tangency</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 97" id="page_97" role="doc-pagebreak"/>MOMENT OF TANGENCY</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>a fleeting glimpse of what might have been</i></p>
<p class="noindent">You and I have never met, many times before. Our paths might have crossed once or twice online, or while passing in the street. We might have spent an hour sitting back-to-back at the same airport gate, or even exchanged a few words over the phone, when I dialed your number by mistake. For all we know, we might have been living in the same neighborhood for decades—but against incredible odds, we just happened to miss each other. It’s a big world, after all.</p>
<p class="indent">Our days must be filled with these chance encounters, that for a million tiny reasons, never actually happen. Our streets must be teeming with accidental strangers, who just happened to miss their cue—who share everything in common, except for time and place. For years, their stories might’ve been happening in parallel, harmonizing from somewhere across the world, but neither has any idea that the other even exists. If two lines are truly parallel, it means they’ll never actually meet.</p>
<p class="indent">It’s hard not to think of your own near-misses, veering away on a tangent in some alternate universe. The person who would’ve been your best friend in the world might be out there somewhere, milling around a party you weren’t invited <span aria-label="page 98" id="page_98" role="doc-pagebreak"/>to. Your business partner might be sitting on half of a world-changing idea, waiting for your contribution to arrive, though it never will. It’s hard not to glance at a stranger in a crowd and imagine the life you might have shared, if only things had been different—feeling a pang of missed connection as you carry on your separate ways, leaving nothing but an echo of something that might have been.</p>
<p class="indent">You never know how many things had to happen exactly right for you to meet the one you love. You never know how easily fate might have tipped you onto some other course, meeting some stranger, who might have felt like a soulmate. As you sit there on your commuter train, wrapped up in your own concerns, you have no way of knowing how close you’re sitting to the person you might have loved, who you might have spent years with, even built a family. You would have looked across the room at this same face, and struggled to imagine life without them, telling yourself that it was always meant to be. As if you had known all along that your paths would cross eventually.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe you were always destined to be sitting right where you’re sitting. Or maybe it’s a miracle that you managed to meet the people you did, knowing how many obstacles might have gotten in the way. Or maybe it’s nothing personal, and it was all just a coincidence. You never know.</p>
<p class="fntxt">In geometry, a <i>tangent</i> is the point at which a line “just touches” a curve, where they share precisely the same angle, before separating again and carrying on to infinity.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 99" id="page_99" role="doc-pagebreak"/>waldosia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a condition in which you keep scanning faces in a crowd looking for a specific person who would have no reason to be there, as if your brain is checking to see whether they’re still in your life, subconsciously patting its emotional pockets before it leaves for the day.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From the <i>Where’s Waldo?</i> series of picture books, or in some countries, <i>Where’s Wally?</i>, in which the reader tries to spot one specific person somewhere in a massive crowd. Pronounced “wawl-<i>doh</i>-zhuh” or “wawl-<i>doh</i>-see-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">zverism</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the wish that people could suspend their civility and indulge the physical side of each other first—sniffing each other’s hair like dogs, staring unabashedly at interesting faces, reveling in a beautiful voice like a song on the radio.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Lithuanian <i>žvėris</i>, wild beast + Latin <i>vērissimus</i>, the truest, the realest. Pronounced “<i>zvair</i>-iz-uhm.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">immerensis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the maddening inability to understand the reasons why someone loves you—almost as if you’re selling them a used car that you know has a ton of problems and requires daily tinkering just to get it to run normally, but no matter how <span aria-label="page 100" id="page_100" role="doc-pagebreak"/>much you try to warn them, they seem all the more eager to hop behind the wheel and see where this puppy can go.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>immerens</i>, undeserving. Pronounced “ih-muhr-<i>en</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">lookaback</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the shock of meeting back up with someone and learning that your mental image of them had fallen wildly out of date—having grown up or gotten old, fallen apart or pulled themselves together—which shakes your faith in the accuracy of the social puppet show that runs continuously inside your head.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>look back</i> + <i>taken aback</i>, taken by surprise.</p>
<p class="dfhead">falesia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the disquieting awareness that someone’s importance to you and your importance to them may not necessarily match—that your best friend might only think of you as a buddy, that someone you barely know might consider you a mentor, that someone you love unconditionally might have one or two conditions.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Portuguese <i>falésia</i>, cliff. A cliff is a dizzying meeting point between high ground and low ground. Pronounced “fuh-<i>lee</i>-zhuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 101" id="page_101" role="doc-pagebreak"/>lackout</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the sudden awareness that you’re finally over someone, noticing that the same voice that once triggered a cocktail of emotions now evokes nothing at all—as if your brain had returned the last box of their things and your heart had quietly changed its locks.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>lack</i>, missing something + <i>blackout</i>, when a spark abruptly goes away.</p>
<p class="dfhead">rivener</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a chilling hint of distance that creeps slowly into a relationship—beginning to notice them laugh a little less, look away a little more, explain away their mood like it’s no longer your business—as if you’re watching them fall out of love right in front of you, gradually and painfully, like a hole in the radiator that leaves your house a little colder with every passing day, whose only clue is a slow, unnerving <i>drip—drip—drip</i>.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>riven</i>, to rend, to cleave apart. Pronounced “<i>riv</i>-uh-ner.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">anderance</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the awareness that your partner perceives the relationship from a totally different angle than you—spending years looking at a different face across the table, listening for cues in a different voice—an odd reminder that no <span aria-label="page 102" id="page_102" role="doc-pagebreak"/>matter how much you have in common, you’re still in love with different people.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Dutch <i>ander</i>, another person, someone else. Pronounced “<i>an</i>-der-uhns.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">ecstatic shock</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a surge of energy upon catching a glance from someone you like, which scrambles your ungrounded circuits and tempts you to chase after that feeling with a kite and a key.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>ecstatic</i>, deliriously happy + <i>static shock</i>, a charge of potential energy that builds up invisibly until it sparks across the air.</p>
<p class="dfhead">foilsick</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> feeling ashamed after revealing a little too much of yourself to someone—allowing them too clear a view of your pettiness, your anger, your cowardice, your childlike vulnerability—wishing you could somehow take back the moment, discreetly bolting the door after a storm had already blown it off its hinges.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Scottish Gaelic <i>foillsich</i>, to expose.</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>