<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Opia</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 88" id="page_88" role="doc-pagebreak"/>OPIA</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the ambiguous intensity of eye contact</i></p>
<p class="noindent">So much can be said in a glance. You feel such ambiguous intensity, looking someone in the eye—it’s somehow both intrusive and vulnerable. Their pupils glittering black, bottomless, and opaque.</p>
<p class="indent">The eye is a keyhole through which the world pours in, and a world spills out. For a few seconds, you can peek through into a vault that contains everything they are. Catching a glimpse of their vulnerability, their pain, their humor, their vitality, their power over others, and what they demand of themselves. But whether the eyes are the windows of the soul or the doors of perception, it doesn’t really matter: you’re still standing on the outside of the house.</p>
<p class="indent">Eye contact isn’t really contact at all. It’s only ever a glance—a near-miss—that you can only feel as it slips past you. There’s so much that we keep in the back room; so much that other people never get to see. We only ever offer up a sample of who we are, of what we think people want us to be. And yet, how rarely do we stop to look inside, let our eyes adjust, and try to see what’s really there, the worlds hidden away in the eyes of others.</p>
<p class="indent">You too are peering out from behind your own door. You put yourself out there, trying to decide how much of <span aria-label="page 89" id="page_89" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the world to let in. It’s all too easy for others to size you up and carry on their way. They can see you more clearly than you ever could. Yours is the only vault you can’t see into, that you can’t size up in an instant. You’ll always have to wonder if someone might come along and peer into your soul. Or if anyone out there will put in the effort, trying to find the key.</p>
<p class="indent">We’re all just exchanging glances, trying to tell each other who we are. Trying to catch a glimpse of ourselves, feeling around in the darkness.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Greek όπιο (<i>ópio</i>), opium + -ωπία (<i>-opía</i>), of the eyes. The word <i>pupil</i> is from the Latin <i>pupilla</i>, “little girl-doll,” a reference to the tiny image of yourself you see reflected in the eyes of another. This idea was the origin of the Elizabethan expression <i>to look babies</i>, which means “to stare lovingly into another’s eyes.” Pronounced “<i>oh</i>-pee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">hickering</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the habit of falling hard for whatever pretty new acquaintance happens to come along, spending hours wallowing in the handful of details you can gather about them, connecting the dots into elaborate constellations, even imagining an entire future together—images that have no particular purpose, except that they’re kinda fun to think about.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Hebrew <span class="f2">הקרין</span> (hikrín), to project an image + <i>hankering</i>, craving. Pronounced “<i>hik</i>-er-ing.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 90" id="page_90" role="doc-pagebreak"/>feresy</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the fear that your partner is changing in ways you don’t understand, even though they might be changes for the better, because it forces you to wonder whether your relationship needs a few careful nudges to fall back into balance, or perhaps is still as stable as ever, but involves a person who no longer exists.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>fere</i>, partner, companion + <i>heresy</i>, deviation from established practices or beliefs. Pronounced “<i>fer</i>-uh-see.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">bye-over</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the sheepish casual vibe between two people who’ve shared an emotional farewell but then unexpectedly have a little extra time together, wordlessly agreeing to pretend that they’ve already moved on.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>good-bye</i> + <i>do-over</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead">skidding</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>v. intr.</i> the practice of making offhand comments that sound sarcastic but are actually sincere and deeply felt.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>skidding</i>, going farther than intended out of inertia + <i>kidding</i>, joking around.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 91" id="page_91" role="doc-pagebreak"/>ochisia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the fear that the role you once occupied in someone’s life could be refilled without a second thought, which makes you wish that every breakup would include a severance package, a non-compete clause, and some sort of romantic placement program.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Greek όχι πια (<i>óchi pia</i>), not anymore. Pronounced “oh-<i>kee</i>-zee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">mornden</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the self-contained pajama universe shared by two people on a long weekend morning, withdrawing from the world and letting the hours slow to a crawl, coming as close as they’ll ever get to pausing the flow of time, even as they know it’ll eventually rush back in all the faster.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>morn</i>, morning + <i>den</i>, a comfortable room that affords private time. Pronounced “<i>mawrn</i>-duhn.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">nachlophobia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the fear that your deepest connections with people are ultimately pretty shallow, that although your relationships feel congenial in the moment, an audit of your life would reveal a smattering of low-interest holdings and uninvested windfall profits, which will indicate you were never really at risk of joy, sacrifice, or loss.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Greek αναχλός (<i>anachlós</i>), loosely held together + -φοβία (<i>-phobía</i>), fear. May also appear as <i>apomakrysmenophobia</i>. Pronounced “nok-luh-<i>foh</i>-bee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 92" id="page_92" role="doc-pagebreak"/>fardle-din</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a long-overdue argument that shakes up a relationship, burning wildly through your issues like a forest fire, which clears out your dry and hollow grievances and reminds you that your roots run deeper than you think.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>fardel</i>, burden or bundle + <i>din</i>, a loud cacophonous noise. Pronounced “<i>fahr</i>-dl-din.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">dolonia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a state of unease prompted by people who seem to like you too much, which makes you wonder if they must have you confused with someone else—someone flawless, selfless, or easy to understand from a distance—feeling vaguely disappointed that they’re unwilling to spend the time it takes getting to know the real you.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek εἴδωλον (<i>eídōlon</i>), a phantom image of an ideal form. Pronounced “duh-<i>loh</i>-nee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 93" id="page_93" role="doc-pagebreak"/>suente</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the state of being so familiar with someone that you can be in a room with them without thinking, without holding anything back, or without having to say a word—to the extent that you have to remind yourself that they’re a different being entirely, that brushing hair away from their eyes won’t help you see any better.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Southwest English dialect <i>suent</i>, easy, peaceful, smooth. Pronounced “soo-<i>ent</i>-ey.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">lilo</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a friendship that can lie dormant for years only to pick right back up instantly, as if you’d seen each other last week—which is all the more remarkable given that certain other people can make every lull in conversation feel like an eternity.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>lifelong</i> + <i>lie low</i>. Pronounced “<i>lahy</i>-loh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">querinous</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> longing for a sense of certainty in a relationship; wishing there were some way to know ahead of time whether this is the person you’re going to wake up next to for twenty thousand mornings in a row, instead of having to count them out one by one, quietly hoping your streak continues.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Mandarin <span class="f1">确认</span> (<i>quèrèn</i>), confirmation. Twenty thousand days is roughly fifty-five years. Pronounced “<i>kweh</i>-ruh-nuhs.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 94" id="page_94" role="doc-pagebreak"/>watashiato</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> curiosity about the impact you’ve had on the lives of the people you know, wondering which of your harmless actions or long-forgotten words might have altered the plot of their stories in ways you’ll never get to see.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Japanese <span class="f1">私</span> (<i>watashi</i>), I + <span class="f1">足跡</span> (<i>ashiato</i>), footprint. Pronounced “wah-tah-shee-<i>ah</i>-toh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">fata organa</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a flash of real emotion glimpsed in someone sitting across the room—their mind wandering away from whatever’s happening around them, their eyes lighting up with pensiveness or vulnerability or cosmic boredom—as if you could see backstage through a gap in the curtains, watching actors in costume mouthing their lines, fragments of bizarre sets waiting for some other production.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>fata morgana</i>, a kind of mirage that warps the appearance of distant objects so that sailboats look like fairy castles + <i>organa</i>, methods by which a philosophical investigation may be conducted. Pronounced “<i>fah</i>-tuh awr-<i>gah</i>-nuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 95" id="page_95" role="doc-pagebreak"/>amoransia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the melodramatic thrill of unrequited love; the longing to pine for someone you can never have, wallowing in devotion to some impossible person who could give your life meaning by their very absence.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Portuguese <i>amor</i>, love + <i>ânsia</i>, craving. Pronounced “ah-moh-<i>ran</i>-see-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">redesis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a feeling of queasiness while offering someone advice, knowing they might well face a totally different set of constraints and capabilities, any of which might propel them to a wildly different outcome—which makes you wonder if all of your hard-earned wisdom is fundamentally nontransferable, like handing someone a gift card in your name that probably expired years ago.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>rede</i>, advice + <i>pedesis</i>, the random motion of particles. Pronounced “ruh-<i>dee</i>-sis.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>