<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Chapter Three: Montage of Attractions</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="dfheadx"><span aria-label="page 84" id="page_84" role="doc-pagebreak"/><span aria-label="page 85" id="page_85" role="doc-pagebreak"/>midding</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the tranquil pleasure of being near a gathering but not quite in it—hovering on the perimeter of a campfire, talking quietly outside a party, resting your eyes in the back seat of a car listening to friends chatting up front—feeling blissfully invisible yet still fully included, safe in the knowledge that everyone is together and everyone is okay, with all the thrill of being there without the burden of having to be.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>midding</i>, alternate spelling of <i>midden</i>, a refuse heap that sits near a dwelling. Pronounced “<i>mid</i>-ing.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">flashover</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the moment a conversation becomes real and alive, when a spark of trust shorts out the delicate circuits you keep insulated under layers of irony, momentarily grounding the static emotional charge you’ve built up through decades of friction with the world.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In firefighting, a <i>flashover</i> is when all the flammable material in an area combusts all at once.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 86" id="page_86" role="doc-pagebreak"/>incidental contact high</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> an innocuous touch by someone just doing their job—a barber, yoga instructor, or friendly waitress—that you find more meaningful than you’d like to admit; a feeling of connection so stupefyingly simple it makes you wonder if aspiring novelists would be better off just offering people a hug.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In sports, <i>incidental contact</i> is a glancing touch that doesn’t rise to the level of a foul. A <i>contact high</i> is when you feel the effects of a drug vicariously.</p>
<p class="dfhead">fensiveness</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a knee-jerk territorial reaction when a friend displays a casual interest in one of your obsessions.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Mandarin <span class="f1">粉絲</span> (<i>fěnsī</i>), fan, admirer + <i>defensiveness</i>. Pronounced “<i>fen</i>-siv-nis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">mottleheaded</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> feeling uneasy when socializing with odd combinations of friends and family, or friends and colleagues, or colleagues and family—mixing a medley of ingredients that don’t typically go together, which risks either watering down your identity into gray mush, or accidentally triggering some sort of explosion.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>motley</i>, comprising incongruous elements + <i>headed</i>. Pronounced “<i>mot</i>-l-hed-id.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 87" id="page_87" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the McFly effect</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the phenomenon of observing your parents interact with people they grew up with, which reboots their personalities into youth mode, offering you a glimpse of the dreamers and rascals they used to be, before you came into the picture.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Refers to Marty McFly, the protagonist of <i>Back to the Future</i>, who travels back in time and interacts with his parents while they’re still in their teens.</p>
<p class="dfhead">moledro</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a feeling of resonant connection with an author or artist you’ll never meet, who may have lived centuries ago and thousands of miles away but can still get inside your head and leave behind morsels of their experience, like the little piles of stones left by hikers that mark a hidden path through unfamiliar territory.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Portuguese <i>moledro</i>, cairn. According to Portuguese legend, if you take a stone from a cairn and put it under a pillow, in the morning an enchanted soldier will appear for a moment, before transforming back into the stone and returning to the pile. Pronounced “moh-<i>leh</i>-droh.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>