<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Amicy</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 103" id="page_103" role="doc-pagebreak"/>AMICY</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the mystery of what goes on behind the scenes of your social life</i></p>
<p class="noindent">It’s comforting to imagine that conspiracies run our world. To think there is some hidden order to things, a superstructure held high over our heads by a shadowy cabal of insiders. Of course, there’s no hidden order—but then again, of course there is. It’s all of us. We’re all insiders, managing an intricate web of relationships, deploying hundreds of unseen gestures and soft power plays, soaking up gossip with all the urgency of counterintelligence. It’s at once mundane, and yet no less chilling than any other conspiracy, because it leaves you questioning the very fabric of reality, wondering what you don’t know.</p>
<p class="indent">Ask yourself—how many cover-ups have you taken part in? How many times have you heard something you weren’t supposed to hear, withheld certain details to make your case, deftly changed the subject, or tried to steer someone’s behavior without them knowing? If you can do all that without a second thought, everyone around you must be doing it, too.</p>
<p class="indent">Of course, you’d like to think you’ve got a clear view of the broader social landscape, but it’s possible you don’t have a clue. There are so many backstories that people keep to themselves, so many back channels you don’t even know exist. Random clusters of friends might be carrying on parallel <span aria-label="page 104" id="page_104" role="doc-pagebreak"/>conversations in another group text, or meeting up regularly at events you’re not invited to. People know far more about you than you think, holding on to secrets and rumors they use to inform your character but never mention in your presence. Some of your friends are vastly different people when they’re one-on-one with each other, such that both would seem unrecognizable. Even now an unexpected pair of them might be helping each other through a crisis, or carrying on a silent feud, or having a fling that you won’t hear about until years later. There might be a big dramatic event going on that bends the course of our lives, except for certain people left out of the loop, who’ll always have to wonder. And even if everything was open and honest, you’d still have to confront the ever-shifting labyrinth of interconnected relationships and personas and levels of intimacy you could scarcely even begin to fathom.</p>
<p class="indent">It’s enough to make you crazy, never knowing if you’re living in an alternate reality being constructed around you. But perhaps there’s some comfort in that uncertainty. After all, cui bono? Who benefits? For all you know, it might be you. Who knows how many colleagues called in favors to get you an interview or lobbied hard to save your job? How many little crises were happening on your wedding day that were deliberately hidden from your view? Protectors all around you might be sheltering you from looming dangers, so you never have to lose sleep knowing how at risk you really were. Your family might spend hours discussing where your life <span aria-label="page 105" id="page_105" role="doc-pagebreak"/>is going, comparing notes to figure out what you need the most right now. Sometimes your friends will wait until you leave the table before they all start singing your praises, only to change the subject just before you return. It’s not a crazy thought. It happens all the time.</p>
<p class="indent">None of us knows the full picture of what’s really going on. All we know for sure is that some mysterious force is working behind the scenes to keep our communities intact and our relationships running—sometimes smoothly, sometimes not. But we all sleep a little better, knowing some sort of conspiracy is afoot. Otherwise we’d be tossing and turning all night, haunted by the notion that we’re all just acting alone.</p>
<p class="fntxt">From <i>amity</i>, friendship + <i>conspiracy</i>, a collective plot to secretly pursue a sinister goal. Pronounced “<i>am</i>-uh-see.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">dead reckoning</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>v</i>. <i>intr.</i> finding yourself bothered by somebody’s death more than you would have expected, even if they were only an abstract presence in your life, like a lighthouse in the distance that suddenly goes dark, leaving you with one less landmark to navigate by.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In navigation, <i>dead reckoning</i> is the practice of using your prior course to extrapolate your subsequent position. It can be useful on starless nights but often leads to cumulative errors; if you don’t often check your position against new data, you might end up completely lost.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 106" id="page_106" role="doc-pagebreak"/>etherness</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the wistful feeling of looking around a gathering of loved ones, all too aware that even though the room is filled with warmth and laughter now, it won’t always be this way—that the coming years will steadily break people away into their own families, or see them pass away one by one, until there comes a time when you’ll look back and try to imagine what it felt like to have everyone together in the same place.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>ether</i>, an intoxicating compound that evaporates very quickly + <i>togetherness</i>. Pronounced “<i>eth</i>-er-nis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">fawtle</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a weird little flaw built into your partner that somehow only endears them more to you, in the way that impurities dissolved in water are what allow it to conduct electricity—if all the imperfections were removed, there would be no spark.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Middle English <i>fawteles</i>, without a defect. Pronounced “<i>faw</i>-tuhl.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">dolorblindness</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the frustration that you’ll never be able to understand another person’s pain, only ever searching their face for some faint evocation of it, then rifling through your own <span aria-label="page 107" id="page_107" role="doc-pagebreak"/>experiences for some slapdash comparison, wishing you could tell them truthfully, “I know exactly how you feel.”</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>dolor</i>, pain + <i>colorblindness</i>. Pronounced “<i>doh</i>-ler-blahynd-nis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">on tenderhooks</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. feeling the primal satisfaction of being needed by someone, which makes you feel that much more rooted to the world, even if the roots belong to someone else.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>tender</i>, emotionally raw + <i>hooks</i>, a tool for binding one thing to another. Compare <i>on tenterhooks</i>, which is a state of anxious suspense.</p>
<p class="dfhead">los vidados</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the half-remembered acquaintances you knew years ago, who you might have forgotten completely if someone hadn’t happened to mention them again—friends of friends, people you once shared classes with, people you heard stories about, who you didn’t know well but who still made up the fabric of your intense little community—making you wonder who else might be out there somewhere, only just remembering that you exist.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Spanish <i>los olvidados</i>, “the forgotten”—but not completely. Pronounced “lohs vee-<i>dah</i>-dohs.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 108" id="page_108" role="doc-pagebreak"/>soufrise</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the maddening thrill of an ambiguous flirtation, which quivers in tension halfway between platonic and romantic—<i>maybe, but no, but maybe</i>—leaving you guessing what’s going on inside their chest, forced to assume that at any given moment their attraction is both alive and dead at the same time.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">French <i>sourire</i>, smile + <i>frisson</i>, a shiver of chill or excitement. Pronounced “soo-<i>freez</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">the kinder surprise</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the point in your early adolescence when you realize that your parents are muddling through their lives the same as you; that many respectable adults are no less lost than you and your friends, no less petty and obsessive and insecure, which makes you wonder if there are no real adults, because such a thing never actually existed, except in bedtime stories.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">German <i>Kinder</i>, children. Refers to <i>Kinder Surprise</i>, a foil-wrapped chocolate egg that contains a small toy that’s already broken into pieces. Pronounced “thuh <i>kin</i>-der ser-<i>prahyz</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">la gaudière</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a glint of goodness you notice in someone that you wouldn’t expect, which is often only detectable by sloshing <span aria-label="page 109" id="page_109" role="doc-pagebreak"/>them back and forth in your mind until everything dark and gray and common falls away, leaving something shining at the bottom of the pan—a rare element hidden deep in the bedrock, that must’ve been washed there by a storm somewhere upstream.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">French <i>la gaudière</i>, from Latin <i>gaudere</i>, to find joy. Pronounced “lah gou-dee-<i>yair</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">attriage</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the state of having lost all control over how you feel about someone—not even trying to quench the flames anymore, but lighting other fires around your head just hoping to contain the damage.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>atria</i>, the chambers of the heart + <i>triage</i>, the sorting of patients in hospital admissions, factoring in the urgency of their illness or injury. Pronounced “at-ree-<i>ahzh</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">mauerbauertraurigkeit</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the inexplicable urge to push people away, even close friends whose company you generally enjoy—like a poker player who keeps folding a promising hand in order to avoid the pain of losing, or tamp down the urge to go all-in.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">German <i>Mauerbauer</i>, wall-builder + <i>Traurigkeit</i>, sadness. Pronounced “mou-er-bou-er-<i>trou</i>-rikh-kahyt.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>