<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Ioche</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 147" id="page_147" role="doc-pagebreak"/>IOCHE</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the anxiety of being an individual</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Imagine how much courage it must take to come into this world all by yourself. It’s almost like being tossed overboard. Nine months you spent in a state of symbiosis, lulled by the steady rhythm of the only home you’ve ever known—but then suddenly, at the moment of birth, you find yourself adrift in the open ocean, fighting to catch your breath, with nothing stable to hold on to. You’re never very far away from another body, but now it’s <i>another body</i>, that could come and go at any given moment. For the first time, the realization hits: you’re on your own.</p>
<p class="indent">You never really get used to the feeling of being an individual. How strange it is that you’re born alone and die alone. That you alone must carry your own body, and your own name. Nobody else can feel the pain you feel, or hear the ringing in your ears, or will ever be able to share an unforgettable dream. You alone manage this particular storehouse of memories, being the only one to remember certain things, or the only one to forget.</p>
<p class="indent">How strange it is that your life is the only one populated by this particular cast of characters. Strange to find yourself floating in a sea of swirling billions, only a few of whom you’ll ever get a chance to know and trust. Which leaves you in a <span aria-label="page 148" id="page_148" role="doc-pagebreak"/>state of perpetual tension. You can follow the crowd for a while, but you’ll never quite be able to relax, having to watch out in case they suddenly shift course or whip themselves up into groupthink. You’re free to break out on your own, but you’ll never feel all that free: as the sole protector and navigator, you’ll find yourself perpetually looking over your shoulder, wondering if there’s a good reason this particular road is the one less traveled. Strange that no matter how predictable your life is, nobody in history has ever lived it before. Strange to think that your concerns are your business and yours alone.</p>
<p class="indent">But strangest of all are those moments when you can almost transcend your singular nature, and feel yourself connecting with another human being. To be swept up by a choir, letting your bones melt into the vibration of a certain chord, thrumming in tune with a thousand other voices. To sit up with a friend all night talking freely and openly, never doubting that you’re being heard, never having to wonder if you’re being misunderstood. To fall into the swell of a shared ecstasy—coming achingly close to finding pleasure in another’s pleasure.</p>
<p class="indent">Of course eventually the song ends and the sun rises, and we all carry on our own separate lives. And at the end of it, you may find yourself feeling all the more disconnected. Such is the curse of being an individual.</p>
<p class="indent">You may never get comfortable living life on your own. Maybe you’ll never get over the initial shock of existing at all, and will spend your life as a perpetual newcomer, still trying to catch your breath, right until the last. But know that at the <span aria-label="page 149" id="page_149" role="doc-pagebreak"/>very least, you’re in good company. Ask any one of us, and we’ll tell you: <i>you’re not alone.</i></p>
<p class="fntxt">Italian <i>io che</i>, I who. Pronounced “<i>ahy</i>-uh-kee.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">latigo</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a dizzying sense of awe at the sheer scale of modern society—looking out at a city so vast and complex it can barely be mapped, with millions of miles of roads and power lines and water mains that must be continually repaired and replaced every few years, feeding a labyrinth of supply chains and regulations and contracts and algorithms—a system so massive that individual people seem almost beside the point, that if everybody were to vanish all at once, the city would sigh and carry on its business.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>labyrinth</i>, a maze of tortuous complexity + <i>vertigo</i>, the whirling sensation of looking down from great heights. Compare Spanish <i>látigo</i>, whip. Pronounced “<i>lat</i>-i-goh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">innity</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the complicated solitude of hotel rooms late at night, spending time in a place that’s both yours and emphatically not yours, both soulless and homey, both timeless and temporary, suspended somewhere halfway between vacancy and no vacancy.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>inn</i>, a small hotel or tavern for travelers + <i>inanity</i>, a total lack of meaning or ideas. Pronounced “<i>ihn</i>-i-tee.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 150" id="page_150" role="doc-pagebreak"/>wenbane</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. feeling small and alone while walking the streets of an unfamiliar city, swept along in the commercial bustle of asphalt and neon, dwarfed by impenetrable monoliths looming high overhead, brushed aside by pulses of traffic carrying on their daily business, with nobody willing to look you in the eye except for the posters encrusted on subway walls, each of them pitching at someone other than you.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>wen</i>, an enormously congested city that swells like a cyst + <i>bane</i>, an affliction or poison.</p>
<p class="dfhead">mal de coucou</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a condition in which you have an active social life but very few close friends—people who you can trust, who you can be yourself with, who can help flush out the weird psychological toxins that tend to accumulate over time—which can eventually progress into a state of acute social malnutrition, where even if you devour an entire buffet of chitchat, you’ll still feel pangs of hunger.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">French <i>mal</i>, ache + <i>de coucou</i>, of the cuckoo bird. <i>Coucou</i> is also a French colloquialism for “Hey there!” <i>Mal de coucou</i> is a riff on the term <i>mal de caribou</i>, also known as <i>rabbit starvation</i>, in which you can starve to death even with unlimited access to lean meats like rabbit and caribou, after eating an excess of protein and not enough fat. Pronounced “mal duh koo-<i>koo</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 151" id="page_151" role="doc-pagebreak"/>the unsharp mask</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the tendency for social networks to magnify unexpected personality traits of people you know, a consequence of compressing someone’s raw persona into a low-res digital format, which can randomly brighten their outer glow, sharpen their comic edges, darken their shadows, or add motion blur to a stationary life.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In digital photo processing, <i>unsharp mask</i> is a filter that combines the original negative with a blurred positive image. The resulting image may look sharper but is actually a less accurate interpretation of the subject.</p>
<p class="dfhead">heartmoor</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the primal longing for a home village to return to, a place that no longer exists, if it ever did; the fantasy of finding your way back home before nightfall, hustling to bring in the cattle before the rains come; picturing a cluster of lanterns glowing on the edge of a tangled wood, hearing the rattle and hiss of meals cooking over a communal fire, finding your place in a crowded longhouse made of clay-packed thatch, where you’d sit and listen to the voices of four generations layered into a canon, telling stories of a time when people could still melt into a collective personality and weren’t just floating around alone.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>heart</i> + <i>moor</i>, to tie a boat to an anchor. Pronounced “<i>hahrt</i>-moor.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>