<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Lumus</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 127" id="page_127" role="doc-pagebreak"/>LUMUS</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the poignant humanness beneath the spectacle of society</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Your culture never really leaves you. Its rhythms are encoded in your heartbeat, its music embedded in the sound of your voice. Its images make up the raw material of your wildest dreams, your deepest fears, even your attempts to rebel against it. So it’s hard not to get swept up in the spectacle of it all, absorbing its stories and values and symbols until you no longer question their importance. It’s as if there’s a circus whirling around you all the time, so overwhelming that you keep forgetting it’s there.</p>
<p class="indent">But there are still moments when you manage to tune out the fanfare—taking time in nature, in solitude, or in some other culture entirely—getting away long enough so that when you return to normal life again, you’re able to look around with fresh eyes, and see how abnormal it really is.</p>
<p class="indent">You take in all the scenes and sideshows happening around you. It doesn’t quite feel like reality anymore, more like the worldbuilding of a fantasy novel. You have no idea who came up with this stuff, but you can’t help but be impressed by their tireless dedication to fleshing out even the most mundane details. The vaunted marble halls of politics and business and religion and the arts, each buttressed by <span aria-label="page 128" id="page_128" role="doc-pagebreak"/>its own rules and standards and practices, booming with the echoes of a billion conversations that everyone seems to take so very seriously. Rituals of status and fashion, the mythology of the markets, pop-culture think pieces, and waves upon waves of breaking news. You wonder how you ever managed to get so invested, following all these stock characters, and all their little dramas and debates. Who said what to whom? What does it all mean? What will happen next?</p>
<p class="indent">You’re struck by how arbitrary and provisional it all feels. Though it has all the weight of reality, you know it could just as easily have been something else. You realize that all of our big ideas and sacred institutions were designed and built by ordinary human beings, soft-bellied mammals, who shiver when they’re cold, dance around when they have to pee, and lash out when they feel powerless. So much of our culture exists because someone was hungry once, someone was bored, someone was afraid, someone wanted to impress a mate, prove someone wrong, or leave their kids a better life.</p>
<p class="indent">The circus is so big and bright and loud, it’s easy to believe that that’s the real world and you live somewhere outside it. But beneath all these constructed ideals, there is a darker heart of normalcy, a humble humanness, that powers the whole thing. We’re all just people. We go to work and play our roles as best we can, spinning our tales and performing our tricks, but then we take off our makeup and go home, where we carry on with our real lives. None of us really knows what is happening, what we’re doing, where we’re going, or <span aria-label="page 129" id="page_129" role="doc-pagebreak"/>why. Still we carry on, doing what we can to get through it. Even the roar of the city can sometimes feel like a cry for help.</p>
<p class="indent">Inevitably, within a few days or weeks at most, you’ll find yourself getting swept right back into the big show, even though you know it’s all just an act. That’s perhaps the most amazing thing about a society: even if none of us fully believes in it, we’re all willing to come together and pretend we do, doing our part to hold up the tent. If only so we can shut out the darkness for a little while, and offer each other the luxury of thinking that little things matter a great deal.</p>
<p class="indent">We know it’s all so silly and meaningless, and yet we’re still here, holding our breath together, waiting to see what happens next. And tomorrow, we’ll put ourselves out there and do it all again. The show must go on.</p>
<p class="fntxt">Latin <i>lumen</i>, light, brightness + <i>humus</i>, a particularly rich and dark component of soil, made of decayed organic matter. Pronounced “<i>loo</i>-muhs.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">catoptric tristesse</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the sadness that you’ll never really know what other people think of you, whether good, bad, or if at all—that although you can gather a few hints here and there, and even ask around for honest feedback, you’ll always have to wonder which opinions are being softened out of flattery, sharpened out of malice, or held back because it’s simply not their place.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In Ancient Rome, the <i>catoptric cistula</i> was a kind of mirror-lined box whose interior appeared to expand into an infinite forest, library, or treasure room. Pronounced “kuh-<i>top</i>-trik tris-<i>tes</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 130" id="page_130" role="doc-pagebreak"/>pax latrina</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the meditative atmosphere of being alone in a bathroom, sequestered inside your own little isolation booth, enjoying a moment backstage from the razzle-dazzle of public life.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>pax</i>, a period of peace + <i>latrina</i>, toilet. Compare <i>Pax Romana</i> or <i>Pax Americana</i>; sometimes the solace of bathroom stalls can feel just as profound as the protection of empires. Pronounced “paks luh-<i>tree</i>-nah.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">wytai</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a feature of modern civilization that suddenly strikes you as absurd and grotesque—from pets and milk drinking to organ transplants, life insurance, and fiction—part of a rich legacy of absurdity that dates all the way back to the moment our ancestors first hauled themselves out of the slime, but could not for the life of them remember what they got up to do.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Acronym of When You Think About It. Pronounced “<i>wahy</i>-tahy.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">burn upon reentry</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the bitter disappointment upon finding no new messages after spending hours out of contact, as if the world had barely even noticed you had left.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From the tendency of spacefaring objects to heat up upon reentering the atmosphere.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 131" id="page_131" role="doc-pagebreak"/>anecdoche</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a conversation in which everyone is talking but nobody is listening—instead merely overlaying words like a spoken game of Scrabble, each player borrowing bits of others’ anecdotes to build out their own, until we reach a point when we all run out of things to say.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>anecdote</i>, a short and often amusing account of real-life events + <i>synecdoche</i>, a figure of speech in which a part stands for the whole. Pronounced “uh-<i>nek</i>-doh-kee.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">xeno</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the smallest measurable unit of human connection, typically exchanged between passing strangers—a warm smile, a sympathetic nod, a shared laugh about some odd coincidence—moments that are fleeting and random but still contain powerful emotional nutrients that can alleviate the symptoms of feeling alone.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek ξένος (<i>xénos</i>), alien, stranger. Pronounced “<i>zee</i>-noh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">amuse-douche</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. an activity that you’ve adored since you were a kid—riding bikes, reading books, taking pictures, cooking food—whose enjoyment dissolves on contact with hardcore fanatics’ ferocious obsession with technique.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>amuse-bouche</i>, a bite-size appetizer intended to tantalize the palate + <i>douche</i>. Pronounced “ah-mooz-<i>doosh</i>.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 132" id="page_132" role="doc-pagebreak"/>pâro</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the feeling that everything you do is always somehow wrong—that there’s nothing you can eat that’s actually healthy, nothing you can say that isn’t problematic, no way to raise your kids that won’t leave them traumatized—which makes you wonder if there’s some obvious way forward that everybody can see but you, each of them leaning back in their chair and calling out helpfully, “Colder… colder… colder…”</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>par 0</i> (<i>par zero</i>), a theoretical hole on a golf course in which it’s already too late—no matter how well you hit the ball, you’ve already fallen behind. The circumflex on the <i>â</i> is a tiny symbol of someone trying for something then retreating. Compare the Spanish <i>paro</i>, a stoppage or a freezing-up. Pronounced “<i>pahr</i>-oh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 133" id="page_133" role="doc-pagebreak"/>adronitis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. frustration with how long it takes to get to know someone—spending the first few weeks chatting in their psychological entryway, with each subsequent conversation like entering a different anteroom, each a little closer to the center of the house—wishing instead that you could start there and work your way out, exchanging your deepest secrets first, before easing into casualness, until you’ve built up enough mystery over the years to ask them where they’re from and what they do for a living.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In Ancient Roman architecture, an <i>andronitis</i> is a hallway connecting the front part of the house with a complex inner atrium. One quirk of Roman houses is that all the rooms in the front have Greek names, but all the back rooms are in Latin—as if your outer self and your inner self are speaking in completely different languages. Pronounced “ad-roh-<i>nahy</i>-tis.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>