<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Silience</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 141" id="page_141" role="doc-pagebreak"/>SILIENCE</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the brilliant artistry hidden all around you</i></p>
<p class="noindent">It’s fun to think of your favorite musicians, back when they were just starting out. Setting up to perform on a street corner, at a time when nobody had any idea who they were. It makes you wonder: If you had been there, passing on the sidewalk as they played an early masterpiece, would you have noticed? Would you have stopped to listen?</p>
<p class="indent">How strange that something so vibrant as art is so nearly invisible. Strange how rarely we look up at the architecture, or savor each bite of a meal cooked with care, or stop to pay attention to the music playing in the background, that’s far better than it has any right to be. It’s only after someone points it out, that you finally catch the tune.</p>
<p class="indent">It makes you wonder if there’s brilliance all around you, hiding in plain sight, just waiting around to see if you’ll notice. Who knows how many Van Goghs you might be walking past, busy doing their work, just a few years too early to recognize? Maybe the next Emily Dickinson is living just down the street, sitting on an unpublished masterpiece; maybe she doesn’t even suspect it, any more than we do.</p>
<p class="indent">We assume that if a piece is any good, surely it’ll find an audience. But maybe it’s mostly luck. Luck that they’re not already famous. Or luck that the right person just happened <span aria-label="page 142" id="page_142" role="doc-pagebreak"/>to look up. In art as in love, one never knows how two people find each other, if they ever meet at all.</p>
<p class="indent">Just imagine how much courage it must take, to set a guitar case down on the cobblestones and make that first move, hoping it’ll resonate with someone passing by. To keep pouring your heart into something, even if it falls on deaf ears. Reaching out in the face of indifference, just trying to give people permission to care.</p>
<p class="indent">Indifference is easy. It takes a lot of courage to fight back against it. So maybe we should stop and count ourselves lucky that there’s still someone out there, fighting the good fight.</p>
<p class="fntxt">From <i>silent</i> + <i>brilliance</i>. In a 2007 experiment, violin virtuoso Joshua Bell tried his hand at busking in a subway station, playing for nearly an hour on his priceless Stradivarius. In the end, only seven of a thousand passersby stopped to listen. No applause. He collected $32. But as <i>Washington Post</i> writer Gene Weingarten observed, “Every single time a child walked past, he or she tried to stop and watch. And every single time, a parent scooted the kid away.” Pronounced “<i>sil</i>-ee-uhns.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">anti-aliasing</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. curiosity about the real flesh-and-blood people behind internet usernames, whose flamboyant uniqueness suggests that when our parents were searching our nameless faces looking for hints of who we would become, they really should have considered Mr. Cookieface, Unicornpuncher, Dutchess Von Whatever, or Wookiegasm.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In digital graphics, <i>anti-aliasing</i> is a technique to smooth the appearance of jagged pixels in low-resolution images.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 143" id="page_143" role="doc-pagebreak"/>kinchy</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. feeling guilty that you care about your own petty concerns more deeply than faraway cataclysms—that a family spat hurts more than a civil war, that a three-day fever hits you harder than climate change.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Japanese <span class="f1">近視</span> (<i>kinshi</i>), near-sightedness. A word just shy of <i>kinship</i>. Pronounced “<i>kin</i>-chee.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">mimeomia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the frustration of knowing how neatly you embody a certain stereotype, without even intending to; the sense of bafflement at the extent to which we all seem to hew to certain tropes, each looking pretty much how you’d expect them to look, as if we’re all trick-or-treating through society wearing one of a handful of premade costumes, because we’re tired of answering the question, “What are you supposed to be?”</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek μῖμος (<i>mîmos</i>), imitator, actor + μῖσος (<i>mîsos</i>), hatred. Pronounced “mim-ee-<i>oh</i>-mee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">scrough</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>v</i>. <i>intr.</i> to mindlessly perform a tedious task that nobody will ever notice, required by a bureaucracy that nobody fully owns, in pursuit of outcomes that nobody really wants.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>scrow</i>, to work hard + <i>scroff</i>, useless bits of leftover material + <i>cog</i>, a tiny forgettable element in a complicated machine. Pronounced “skrawg.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 144" id="page_144" role="doc-pagebreak"/>hemeisis</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the off-putting awareness of how deeply your culture’s norms are ingrained in your psyche—arbitrarily defining what you find shameful and admirable, private and communal, attractive and repulsive, fair and unfair—as if you’d been programmed in a way that you can’t control or even perceive, until you happen to encounter someone who has slightly different code.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek ἡμεῖς (<i>hēmeîs</i>), we (excluding the listener). Pronounced “hem-<i>ey</i>-sis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">aftergloom</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the pang of loneliness you feel the day after an intensely social event, as the glow of voices and laughter fades into a somber quiet.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>afterglow</i> + <i>gloom</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead">hobsmacked</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> suddenly aware of how limited your social circles really are; that although your immediate environment feels like a microcosm of society, it’s more like a bag of exotic fish floating on the surface of a huge aquarium, which is teeming with a million shadowy subcultures that you’d be stunned to see up close.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>hobnob</i>, to mix socially + <i>gobsmacked,</i> astounded.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 145" id="page_145" role="doc-pagebreak"/>anthrodynia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a state of exhaustion with how cruel people can be, freely undercutting each other in ways that seem petty and gratuitous—which can sometimes trigger a countervailing sense of gratitude for things that are kind, sincere, forgiving, or unabashedly joyful.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Ancient Greek ἄνθρωπος (<i>ánthrōpos</i>), humanity + ὀδύνη (<i>odúnē</i>), sorrow, anguish, pain. Pronounced “an-thruh-<i>din</i>-ee-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">fygophobia</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the fear that your connections with people will keep dwindling as you get older; that one by one, you’ll all go flying off the merry-go-round in wildly different directions, sailing through various classes and jobs and interests, ultimately landing in far-flung neighborhoods where you’ll hunker down with your families plus a handful of confidants you see a few times a year, perpetually reassuring each other, “We should keep in touch.”</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Greek φύγω (<i>fýgo</i>), I leave + -φοβία (<i>-phobía</i>), fear. Compare the Greek φυγόκεντρος (<i>fygókentros</i>), centrifuge. Pronounced “fahy-goh-<i>foh</i>-bee-uh.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>