<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Morii</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 177" id="page_177" role="doc-pagebreak"/>MORII</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the desire to capture a fleeting experience</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Strange how strong the instinct is: to see something incredible and reach for a camera. As if you’re trying to lend it some credibility. To prove that it’s real. That <i>I was here.</i></p>
<p class="indent">We live our lives in moments: in those rare experiences we stop to notice and carry with us, in the hopes of stringing them together, trying to tell a story. But even in the moment, you can already feel it start to fade. So you try to capture it and convert it into something that will last longer than just a flash.</p>
<p class="indent">A photo can feel more real than its subject. It lets you build a version of the world that you can take with you. A world flattened and simple. A world that doesn’t change—that fits in the frame. A little brighter and more colorful, with everything under control.</p>
<p class="indent">You can travel the globe looking for memories and still find yourself standing behind a camera, waiting for the world to hold still. With every click of the shutter, you’re trying to press Pause on your life. If only so you can feel a little more comfortable moving on, living in a world stuck on Play.</p>
<p class="indent">A part of you knows you can’t take it with you. But that doesn’t stop you from trying. It doesn’t stop you from wondering, <i>What if I could stay just a little longer?</i> or <i>What if we <span aria-label="page 178" id="page_178" role="doc-pagebreak"/>didn’t have to go?</i> We try to capture moments as if we’re afraid they’ll escape. But they’ll get away eventually.</p>
<p class="indent">So go ahead: take one last look, one more shot—so that years from now you can flip back through and try to relive it all over again. But maybe even then, you’ll be thinking to yourself, <i>Ah well. I guess you had to be there.</i></p>
<p class="fntxt">From <i>memento mori</i>, a small reminder of your mortality + <i>torii</i>, traditional Japanese gates that mark the threshold between the profane and the sacred. Pronounced “<i>moh</i>-ree.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">tirosy</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> a complicated feeling of envy and admiration for people younger than you—their eyes shining with energy, their futures rich with potential, their confidence smooth and untouched like a freshly opened jar of peanut butter, which you simultaneously want to preserve forever and gleefully undercut.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Latin <i>tiros</i>, beginners, new recruits + <i>jealousy</i>. Pronounced “<i>teer</i>-uh-see.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 179" id="page_179" role="doc-pagebreak"/>lap year</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the age at which you become older than your parents were when you were born, which signals that your stage of the race has already begun, having spent years coasting in their slipstream as they tackled the mountain stages of life, leaving you strong, energetic, and deeply mortified by their loud yellow jerseys.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>lap</i>, one full circuit around a course + <i>gap year</i>, a regenerative break between adjacent stages of life. In the Tour de France, the cyclist with the lowest time receives a ceremonial yellow jersey and the right to start the next stage.</p>
<p class="dfhead">etterath</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the feeling of emptiness after a long and arduous process is finally complete—having finished school, recovered from surgery, or gone home at the end of your wedding—which leaves you relieved that it’s over but missing the stress that organized your life into a mission.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Norwegian <i>etter</i>, after + <i>råtne</i>, decay. Pronounced “<i>et</i>-er-rath.”</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>