<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Kenopsia</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 185" id="page_185" role="doc-pagebreak"/>KENOPSIA</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the eeriness of places left behind</i></p>
<p class="noindent">You can sense it when you move out of a house—noticing just how empty a place can feel. Walking through a school hallway in the evening, an unlit office on a weekend, or fairgrounds out of season. They’re usually bustling with life but now lie abandoned and quiet.</p>
<p class="indent">It’s easy to forget that most of your memories happened in places that are still around, the walls mostly unchanged, carrying on in your absence. But the world you once knew, and the people you still remember, have long since moved on, replaced by so many others who have passed through these doors.</p>
<p class="indent">It’s almost impossible to imagine while you’re still in it, knowing abstractly that the crowds will soon be gone, the lights shut off, the music silenced. If you spend enough time in a place, it becomes infused with a certain meaning, with specific memories soaked deep into every corner of the room. It’s hard to imagine that it could ever mean anything else.</p>
<p class="indent">But soon enough, there will come a day when you’ll pack up your things and walk through your house one last time. Looking slowly around the rooms, thinking back on everything that happened here. Which makes it feel not just empty but hyper-empty, with a total population in the negative, <span aria-label="page 186" id="page_186" role="doc-pagebreak"/>whose inhabitants are so conspicuously absent they glow like neon signs.</p>
<p class="indent">And not a day after you leave, it’ll become someone else’s new home. A blank canvas they’ll fill up with their own memories, burying the life you built in a fresh coat of paint, leaving nothing but echoes of what was once here.</p>
<p class="indent">Maybe that’s why we want to believe in ghosts. Maybe it’s just a fantasy. A fantasy that our memories are so powerful that they’ll leave a mark on the wall that would mean something to someone else and can’t just be painted over. We just want to mark our time here, to keep the rooms filled and the memories alive.</p>
<p class="indent">If our houses ever feel haunted, it’ll be because we’re haunting them ourselves, trying to revisit all the places we once knew. As if there were something still there for us, something we forgot. As if there were ever such a thing as “unfinished business.”</p>
<p class="fntxt">Ancient Greek κενό (<i>kenó</i>), emptiness + -οψία (<i>-opsía</i>), seeing. Pronounced “ken-<i>op</i>-see-uh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">alpha exposure</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the otherworldly aura of seeing recordings of a friend in early childhood—catching those little gestures you’d one day come to know, so recognizable yet so foreign, searching their eyes for traces of who it is they’d eventually become.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>alpha</i>, the unstable initial release of software still being tested + <i>exposure</i>, the amount of time that light is allowed onto photographic film.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 187" id="page_187" role="doc-pagebreak"/>clockwise</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. aware that you’ll only ever be a certain age relative to your loved ones, only seeing them from one arbitrary angle across the decades—never knowing your mother in her rebellious youth, never seeing your grandkid as anything other than a kid—because even though your life spans do happen to overlap, they’ll never quite line up.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>clock</i> + <i>wise</i>, pointedly aware of.</p>
<p class="dfhead">rasque</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a moment you instantly wish you could take back, feeling a pulse of dread right after crossing the point of no return—a blurted confession, a hurled insult, a final decision you’d been waffling over for months—wanting to take just one step backward in time, reverting to the way things used to be, in the halcyon days of just a minute ago.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>rue</i>, to regret <i>+ bourrasque</i>, a tempest. Pronounced “rask.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 188" id="page_188" role="doc-pagebreak"/>anticious</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. wondering what our ancestors would think of all this; haunted by the awareness that our world was designed by the dead, who spent their lives trying to flesh out every detail but never got to see how it all turned out—who might well think of the present as an impossible dream, a missed opportunity, or the end of the world as they knew it.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>antecedent</i>, predecessor or ancestor + <i>anxious</i>. Pronounced “an-<i>tish</i>-uhs.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">cullaways</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the scattering of memories that your brain is actively forgetting at any given moment, erasing them one by one with no input from you and no knowledge that it’s happening at all—which means that when you wake up in the morning, your past will feel imperceptibly altered, with no trace of what you ate last week, a party you attended ten years ago, or the first real conversation you had with your grandfather.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>cull</i>, to control the size of a herd by selectively killing some animals + <i>away</i>. Pronounced “<i>kuhl</i>-uh-weys.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 189" id="page_189" role="doc-pagebreak"/>midsummer</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the point in your mid-twenties when your youthfulness expires as a valid excuse, leaving you accountable for your own station in life, even if you’re still only reeling from your past or planning for the future—which somehow makes time itself feel more urgent than before, until even the springtime pollen floating in the air reminds you of the coming snow.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Borrowed from the traditional feast of the summer solstice, after which all the days become shorter.</p>
<p class="dfhead">halfwise</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj.</i> suddenly aware that you’re more than halfway through a vacation or semester or other positive experience, noticeably closer to the end than the beginning, as if someone had flipped your mental hourglass overnight, turning a rush of fun surprises into a trickle of last hurrahs.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Norwegian Bokmål <i>halvveis</i>, halfway.</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>