<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Zenosyne</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h2"><span aria-label="page 161" id="page_161" role="doc-pagebreak"/>ZENOSYNE</h2>
<p class="subchap"><i>the feeling that time is getting faster</i></p>
<p class="noindent">It’s actually just after you’re born that your life flashes before your eyes. Entire eons are lived in those first few months. At first, time is only felt vicariously, as something that happens to other people. Looking out at the world from a car seat, you feel inseparable from the world itself, with nothing to do but watch it passing by. You get used to living in the moment, because there’s nowhere else to go.</p>
<p class="indent">Before long, life begins to move, and you learn to move with it. You take it for granted that you’re a different person every year, upgraded with a different body and a different future. You run around so fast, the world around you seems to stand still. A summer vacation can stretch on for an eternity.</p>
<p class="indent">We should consider the idea that youth is not actually wasted on the young. That their heightened emotions make perfect sense, once you adjust for inflation. For someone going through adolescence, life feels epic and tragic simply because it is—every kink in their day could easily warp the arc of their story.</p>
<p class="indent">Soon enough, the stakes of life begin to settle. You feel time moving forward, learning its rhythm, passing from one birthday to the next. Each time you circle back around, and cross the same point around the sun, and hear “Many happy <span aria-label="page 162" id="page_162" role="doc-pagebreak"/>returns.” But you can already feel a shift in the pace of things, and get the feeling that each year is worth a little less than the last, as if your birthday arrives one day earlier every year.</p>
<p class="indent">As your twenties whirl into your thirties, you feel the circle begin to tighten, and all at once you realize it’s a spiral, and you’re already halfway through. You start to notice how much effort it takes just to hold on to what you have—catching up with friends, keeping up with your obligations, maintaining your possessions, clearing your head. As more of your day repeats itself, you keep trying to slow down and focus on the things that matter to you. You try to stay open to new experiences but find it harder and harder to resist the pull toward your center of gravity: the ballast of memories you hold on to, which occupy more and more of your attention.</p>
<p class="indent">Until you reach a point when it all seems to move under its own inertia. So even when you’re holding still, settling down to bed at the end of a long day, it feels like you’re running somewhere. And even if tomorrow you manage to run a little faster, and stretch your arms a little farther, you’ll still feel the seconds slipping away as you drift around the bend.</p>
<p class="indent">Life is short—and life is long. But not in that order.</p>
<p class="fntxt">In philosophy, <i>Zeno’s dichotomy paradox</i> asks how a person can walk from one point to another if they must first cross a seeming infinity of halfway points, which makes their journey look like a series of ever-shrinking steps + <i>Mnemosyne</i>, the personification of memory in Ancient Greek mythology. Pronounced “ze-<i>nos</i>-uhn-ee.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 163" id="page_163" role="doc-pagebreak"/>vellichor</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the strange wistfulness of used bookstores, which are somehow infused with the passage of time—filled with thousands of old books you’ll never have time to read, each of which is itself locked in its own era, bound and dated and papered over like an old room the author abandoned years ago, a hidden annex littered with thoughts left just as they were on the day they were captured.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>vellum</i>, parchment + <i>ichor</i>, the fluid that flows in the veins of the gods in Ancient Greek mythology. Pronounced “<i>vel</i>-uh-kawr.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">keir</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> an ill-fated attempt to reenact a beloved memory years later, returning to a place that once felt like home, only to find it now feels uncannily off, like walking through a wax museum of your own childhood.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Dutch <i>kier</i>, fissure or narrow opening, as in the midpoint of an hourglass. Pronounced “keer.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">austice</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a wistful omen of the first sign of autumn—a subtle coolness in the shadows, a rustling of dead leaves abandoned on the sidewalk, or a long skein of geese sweeping over your head like the second hand of a clock.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>autumn</i> + <i>auspice</i>, an omen, or a divination derived from observing the actions of birds. Pronounced “<i>aw</i>-stis.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 164" id="page_164" role="doc-pagebreak"/>backmasking</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the instinctive tendency to see someone as you knew them in their youth—a burned-in image of grass-stained knees, graffitied backpacks, or handfuls of birthday cake, superimposed on an adult with a mortgage, or children of their own.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In audio recording, <i>backmasking</i> is a technique wherein a sound is deliberately recorded backward, so it’s only intelligible when played in reverse.</p>
<p class="dfhead">keta</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a random image from your distant past that leaps back into your attention, that doesn’t mean much of anything but is somehow able to keep fighting against the current, swimming back and forth in your mind, still developing.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">After a species of salmon, <i>Oncorhynchus keta</i>, which “run” upstream to spawn every year, leaping back to the place they were born; they’re not worth much commercially, but the ketas don’t know that. When we look back on our lives, it’s not just the moments that we remember, not the grand gestures and catered ceremonies, or the world we capture poised and smiling in photos. It’s the little things—the minutes—the cheap raw material of ordinary time. Pronounced “<i>kay</i>-tuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 165" id="page_165" role="doc-pagebreak"/>aulasy</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the sadness that there’s no way to convey a powerful memory to people who weren’t there at the time—driving past your childhood home to show it to a friend, or pointing at a picture of a loved one you lost, only to realize that to them it’s just another house, just another face.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">A contraction of <i>auld lang syne</i>, which is Scots for “times long past”—fragments of which are still present in <i>aulasy</i>, but the meaning has been lost. Pronounced “<i>awl</i>-uh-see.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">enterhood</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the set of living people who have known you all your life, all the way back to your infancy, before you had a clue who you were; a group that slowly shrinks as you get older, until the point when all of your closest confidants have only ever seen an abridged version of you, having joined your story somewhere in the middle of things, just as you did.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>enter</i> + <i>entire</i> + <i>hood</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 166" id="page_166" role="doc-pagebreak"/>keyframe</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a moment that felt innocuous at the time but ended up marking a diversion into a strange new era of your life—a chance meeting you’d think back on for years, a harmless comment that sparked an ongoing feud, an idle musing that would come to define your entire career—a monumental shift secretly buried among the tiny imperceptible differences between one ordinary day and the next.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">In video compression, a <i>key frame</i> defines major changes in a scene. Most frames in compressed video are <i>in-betweens</i>, marking subtle incremental changes, but key frames depict a whole new scene. This technique allows you to move forward without stopping to buffer, even if it makes it harder to rewind.</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>