<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-us" xml:lang="en-us">
<head>
<title>Chapter Six: Roll the Bones</title>
<link href="../styles/9781501153662.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../styles/SS_global.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:68494076-c8db-4ad3-bc69-2209ed8c0fa3" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="dfheadx"><span aria-label="page 212" id="page_212" role="doc-pagebreak"/><span aria-label="page 213" id="page_213" role="doc-pagebreak"/>galagog</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n.</i> the state of being simultaneously entranced and unsettled by the vastness of the cosmos, which makes your deepest concerns feel laughably quaint, yet vanishingly rare.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>galaxy</i>, a gravitationally bound system of millions of stars + <i>agog</i>, awestruck. Pronounced “<i>gal</i>-uh-gawg.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">ellipsism</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the sadness that you’ll never be able to know how history will turn out, that you’ll dutifully pass on the joke of being alive without ever learning the punch line, which may not suit your sense of humor anyway and will probably involve how many people it takes to change a lightbulb.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>ellipsis</i>, a marker of a continuation that you don’t get to see. Pronounced “ih-<i>lip</i>-siz-uhm.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">boorance</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. an unassuming feature of our daily lives that will eventually come off as the bizarre relic of a bygone era, that’ll make us look back in shock that we ever thought it was normal to bless each other’s sneezes, drive cars by hand, <span aria-label="page 214" id="page_214" role="doc-pagebreak"/>swim in chlorinated pools, keep animals in zoos, or feel clean using little else but toilet paper—things that we never think to question, because that’s just what people did “back then.”</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>boor</i>, an ill-mannered person + <i>hence</i>, in the future from now. Pronounced “<i>boor</i>-uhns.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">suerza</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. a feeling of quiet amazement that you exist at all; a sense of gratitude that you were even born in the first place, that you somehow emerged alive and breathing despite all odds, having won an unbroken streak of reproductive lotteries that stretches all the way back to the beginning of life itself.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Spanish <i>suerte</i>, luck + <i>fuerza</i>, force. Pronounced “soo-<i>wair</i>-zuh.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">future-tense</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. sensing the judgment of your future self looking over your shoulder—chuckling at your well-laid plans or clutching their pearls at the risky move you’re about to make—which leaves you faintly wary of their opinion, even though you know they’d take your place in a heartbeat.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>future</i> (the grammatical tense) + <i>tense</i>.</p>
<p class="dfhead"><span aria-label="page 215" id="page_215" role="doc-pagebreak"/>elosy</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>n</i>. the fear of major life changes, even ones you’ve been anticipating for years; the dread of leaving behind the bright and ordinary world you know, stepping out into that liminal space before the next stage of life begins, like the dark and rattling void between adjoining metro cars.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">Malagasy <i>lelosy</i>, snail, which is a creature that carries many twists and turns wherever it goes, trying in vain to outrun them. Pronounced “<i>ehl</i>-uh-see.”</p>
<p class="dfhead">hem-jawed</p>
<p class="dftxt"><i>adj</i>. feeling trapped inside your own language, struggling to shake away the baggage weighing down certain words, unable to break out of its age-old structures and melodies, frustrated that the scattering of verbal pigments on its palette could never quite capture the colors in your head.</p>
<p class="dfsoot">From <i>hem</i>, an attempt to clear the throat + <i>jaw</i>, coarse babble.</p>
<div style="float: none; margin: 10px 0px 10px 0px; text-align: center;"><p><a href="https://oceanofpdf.com"><i>OceanofPDF.com</i></a></p></div></body>
</html>